Business Overview: we have historically signed a higher percentage of software subscription agreements with new and existing customers in the fourth quarter of each year. this seasonality is reflected in our revenues, though the impact to overall annual or quarterly revenues is typically minimal. we recorded stock-based compensation expense of $147.9 million and $9.5 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. We anticipate that we will continue to expand our operations and headcount. with the pace of change in commerce and compliance, we believe it is important to continue innovating and extending the functionality and breadth of our software. we generated 12.9%, 19.1% and 27.5% of software subscription revenues from cloud-based subscriptions in 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively. we recognize revenue from the sale of cloud-based subscriptions ratably over the life of the contract. for on-premise subscriptions, the first year pricing includes a premium that is not included in future renewal pricing. to the extent that revenues from our cloud offerings increase as a percentage of total revenues, our gross margin may decrease.

Results of Operations: you should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto beginning on page f-1 of this annual report on form 10-k. We converted to a c-corporation, which will result in taxation at the corporate level. The increase in software subscriptions revenues of $41.1 million, or 14.9%, was primarily driven by an increase of. $37.5 million in revenues derived from our existing customers. Selling and marketing expenses increased $31.3 million, or 45.9%, to $99.4 million in 2020. After excluding the impact of stock-based compensation there is a remaining increase of $3.6 million. The increase was primarily due to an increase in employee-related expenses to support the growth in year-over-year subscription and services revenues. The change in tax benefit was primarily driven by the establishment of deferred tax assets at the higher c-corporation tax rate, resulting in a benefit of $24.9 million. The substantial increases in stock-based compensation expense led to an overall pretax loss in 2020.

Revenues:  we enter into contracts that include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. revenue is recognized net of allowance for subscription and non-renewal cancellations and any taxes collected from customers. our on-premise software subscription prices in the initial subscription year are higher than standard renewal prices. services we generate services revenues primarily in support of our customers’ needs associated with our software. our managed services offering allows customers to outsource all or a portion of their indirect tax operations to us. we generally bill for services on a per-transaction or time and materials basis, and we recognize revenue from deliverable-based professional services as services are performed. Selling and marketing expenses increased to 21.2% of total revenues in 2019 compared to 20.9% in 2018. depreciation and amortization increased $1.0 million, or 13.3%. impairment of asset during the year ended december 31, 2018, for capitalized internal-use software previously utilized to provide cloud-based services to customers.  arr is based on monthly recurring revenues (“mrr”) from software subscriptions for the most recent month at period end, multiplied by twelve. mrr is calculated by dividing the software subscription price, inclusive of discounts, 30 by the number of subscription covered months. arr increased by $37.9 million or 13.6% from 2019 to 2020.

Gross Profit Margin: Cost of revenues includes direct costs associated with information technology, such as data center and software hosting costs, and tax content maintenance. We plan to continue to significantly expand our infrastructure and personnel to support our future growth and increases in transaction volumes. we expect growth in our business will result in an increase in the cost of services revenues in absolute dollars.

Operating Income: we regularly review several metrics identified below to evaluate growth trends, measure our performance, formulate financial projections and make strategic decisions. Our non-gaap financial measures are presented as supplemental disclosure as we believe they provide useful information to 47 investors and others in understanding and evaluating our results, prospects, and liquidity. These measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or in isolation from, the financial information prepared in accordance with gaap.

Interest Expense: interest expense consists primarily of interest payments and other financing costs on our debt facility. interest income reflects earnings on investments of our cash on hand and on funds held for customers related to our managed outsourcing services. Changes in the settlement value of the future payment obligation for the systax acquisition will be recorded as interest expense.

Liquidity: We believe that our existing cash resources and our $100 million bank line of credit will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. If these sources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or borrow from our banks. debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. additional financing may not be available at all, or in amounts or on terms unacceptable to us. We consider free cash flow to be an important measure for investors because it measures the amount of cash we generate from our operations after our capital expenditures and capitalization of software development costs. We define freecash flow as the total of net cash provided by operating activities, adjusted for the redemption of stock appreciation rights (“sars”) in 2020 in connection with the offering. For more information about how we use these and other non-gaap financial measures in our business, the limitations of these measures and reconciliations 32 to the most directly comparable gaap measures, see “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. ” free cash flow margin remained relatively consistent with the prior year at approximately 17%. we maintain trust accounts with financial institutions, which allows our customers to outsource their tax remittance functions to us. funds held for customers are not commingled with our operating funds. 52 customer funds obligations represent our contractual obligations to remit collected funds to satisfy customer tax payments.

Debt: we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined by applicable regulations of the sec, that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. at december 31, 2020 the base rate option and libor option applicable to line of credit borrowings were 3.25% and 2.00%, respectively.

