Business Overview: unity is the world’s leading platform for creating and operating interactive, real-time 3d content. in the fourth quarter of 2020, applications built with unity were downloaded, on average, five billion times per month. We continue to invest in research and development and to pursue selective acquisitions and partnerships to enhance and expand our platform.

Revenues: We offer subscription plans at various price points and recognize revenue over a service period that generally ranges from one to three years. We recognize monetization revenue primarily when an end user installs an application after seeing an advertisement. actions by operating system platform providers or application stores such as apple or google may affect the manner in which we or our customers collect, use and share data from end-user devices. 70 our total revenue is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): the increase in revenue in the year ended december 31, 2020 was substantially due to revenue growth among existing customers. revenue from our create solutions and operate solutions, including an increase of approximately $25 million as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, offsetting a decrease in strategic partnership revenue.

Gross Profit Margin: Cost of revenue consists primarily of hosting expenses, personnel costs, allocated overhead, third party license fees, and credit card fees. gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including our product mix, the costs associated with third-party hosting services and the extent to which we expand and drive efficiencies in our hosting costs and professional services.

Operating Income: operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. We estimate that materially reduced travel and spending on events and facilities due to covid-19 protocols and precautions reduced our operating expenses by approximately $40 million in the year ended december 31, 2020. These savings are unlikely to be repeated in future years. Non-gaap financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only. They should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with gaap. We believe that these metrics provide our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations.

Interest Expense: interest expense consists primarily of interest expense associated with our credit agreement. interest income and other expense, net, increased due to foreign currency remeasurement losses and lower returns on our interest-bearing deposits as a result of lower interest rates. as we have expanded our global operations, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies has increased, and we expect this to continue.

Liquidity:  since our inception, we have generated losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $797.5 million. as of december 31, 2020, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $1,752.0 million, which were primarily held for working capital purposes. we expect our free cash flow to remain volatile from quarter to quarter and likely to decline in 2021. Cash flows fluctuate from period to period due to revenue seasonality, timi ng of billings, collections, and publisher payments. historical cash flows are not necessarily indicative of our results in any future period. during the year ended december 31, 2020, cash used in investing activities was $575.2 million, consisting of the purchase of marketable securities of $482.5 million.

Debt: we have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and did not have any material holdings in variable interest entities as of december 31, 2020. The substantial majority of our purchase commitments are related to agreements with our data center hosting providers. We cannot predict with reasonable reliability the timing of cash settlements to the respective taxing authorities.

