Business Overview: We are a global leader in asset optimization software that improves competitiveness and profitability of customers by increasing throughput, energy efficiency, and production levels; reducing unplanned downtime, plant emissions, and safety risks; enhancing capital efficiency; and decreasing working capital requirements. Our software combines proprietary mathematical and empirical models with big data, AI and advanced analytics. We have two operating and reportable segments: subscription and software, and services and other. We have approximately 2,500 customers globally in the process and capital-intensive industries such as energy, chemicals, engineering and construction, pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, transportation, power, metals and mining, pulp and paper, and consumer packaged goods. Our products are organized into three suites: engineering, manufacturing and supply chain, and asset performance management. We license our software products mainly through subscription and point product term arrangements.

Results of Operations: Total revenue increased by $110.7 million during fiscal 2021 and $2.0 million during fiscal 2020, due to increases in license revenue, maintenance revenue, and services and other revenue. Total free cash flow increased by $34.4 million during fiscal 2021 and $6.3 million during fiscal 2020, primarily due to changes in working capital. Cash from operating activities provided $276.1 million in fiscal 2021, $243.3 million in fiscal 2020, and $238.3 million in fiscal 2019. Non-cash items within net income consisted primarily of stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization expense, provision for bad debts, reduction in the carrying amount of right-of-use assets, deferred income taxes, and net foreign currency gains/losses. Cash used by working capital was primarily attributable to increases in contract assets, decreases in lease liabilities, increases in accounts receivable, decreases in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities, increases in prepaid expenses, prepaid income taxes, and other assets, and increases in contract costs, partially offset by cash provided by increases in deferred revenue.

Revenues: We generate revenue primarily from license, maintenance, services and other sources. License revenue is generated from the sale of software products to end users through a subscription offering, which includes software maintenance and support. Maintenance revenue is generated from technical support, access to software fixes and updates and the right to any new unspecified future software products and updates. Services and other revenue is generated from training and professional services, including on-site, internet-based and customized training, which are provided to customers on a time-and-materials or fixed-price basis. We use directly observable transactions to determine the standalone selling prices for performance obligations, and estimate a standalone selling price for term licenses and maintenance using relevant information, including our overall pricing objectives and strategies and historical pricing data. Revenue from fiscal 2021 to fiscal 2020 increased due to an increase in bookings and the timing of renewals, while services and other revenue decreased due to a decrease in bookings, delay in timing of professional service engagements, and an increase in discounts provided for the professional services engagements to help generate license growth.

Gross Profit Margin: .

Gross Profit Margin increased to 91.5% in fiscal 2021 compared to 89.7% in fiscal 2020 due to growth in license revenue compared to related costs. In fiscal 2020, Gross Profit decreased by $(1.8) million compared to the prior year and Gross Profit Margin remained relatively consistent at 89.7%.

Operating Income: Operating income: Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel and travel-related expenses to license products and services and manage customer relationships. Marketing expenses include promotion and market research. Research and development expenses include personnel expenses related to creating new software products and enhancements. General and administrative expenses include personnel expenses for executive leadership, finance, legal, human resources and corporate communications, and other costs such as professional and consultant fees, amortization of intangible assets and bad debt provision. Cash is primarily generated from annual installments from software license arrangements and related services, and from professional services and training. Non-GAAP income from operations excludes non-cash and non-recurring expenses, providing insight into recurring profitability and cash flow.

Interest Expense: fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 the year-over-year decrease of $4.6 million in interest expense during fiscal 2021 as compared to the prior fiscal year was primarily due to less interest associated with the revolving line of credit under our amended and restated credit agreement due to the repayment of the outstanding balance during fiscal 2021 and a lower interest rate associated with the term loan. fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 the year-over-year increase of $3.1 million in interest expense during fiscal 2020 as compared to the prior fiscal year was primarily due to interest expenses related to an increase in borrowings under our amended and restated credit agreement.

Liquidity: In fiscal 2021, we used $165.1 million of cash from financing activities, which included repayment of the outstanding revolving line of credit, repurchases of our common stock, repayments of the term loan, withholding taxes on restricted stock units, and deferred business acquisition payments. We used $19.8 million of cash from investing activities in fiscal 2021, including business acquisitions, capital expenditures, equity method investments, and capitalized computer software development costs. Non-GAAP Operating Income, annual spend, total contract value, and bookings are available for investors, and free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities adjusted for nonrecurring items. Our cash equivalents of $1.0 million as of June 30, 2021 and 2020 consisted of money market funds.

Debt: As of June 30, 2021, we had no significant off-balance sheet arrangements and had a secured revolving credit facility of $200.0 million and a secured term loan facility of $320.0 million. During the fiscal year 2021, the outstanding balance of the revolving credit facility was paid off and as of June 30, 2021, our current borrowings of $20.0 million consist of the term loan facility. Our contractual obligations, which included borrowings, interest, and fees under our amended and restated credit agreement, operating lease commitments, royalty obligations, equity method investments, deferred acquisition payments, and standby letters of credit and other obligations, totaled $314.1 million and $62.4 million, respectively. We are not currently a party to any other material purchase contracts related to future capital expenditures, and we do not expect our future investment in capital expenditures to be materially different from recent levels. We also have a liability for uncertain tax positions of $2.1 million as of June 30, 2021, none of which is expected to be paid within the next year.

