Business Overview: ADP is a leading global provider of cloud-based Human Capital Management (HCM) technology solutions to employers. In response to the global COVID-19 pandemic, ADP has continued to provide HCM services and released a Return to Workplace solution to help clients bring their employees back safely. During the fiscal year, ADP earned its 6th consecutive Top HR Product Award for its next-gen payroll solution and launched Roll, a mobile-first payroll and tax filing product. ADP also introduced a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) dashboard, Timekeeping Plus, and a new user experience for its Run platform. Employer Services new business bookings were up 23% for fiscal 2021, and the client revenue retention rate improved 170 basis points to 92.2%. The PEO average number of worksite employees increased 2% for fiscal 2021, and the Pays per Control metric turned positive in the fourth quarter resulting in annual growth of negative 3%. ADP has a strong business model, a highly cash generative business with low capital intensity, and sufficient free cash flow to satisfy its cash dividend and debt obligations.

Revenues: Revenues for fiscal 2021 increased due to strong retention, new business bookings, an increase in zero-margin benefits pass-throughs and one percentage point of favorability from foreign currency. The increase was partially offset by a one percentage point of pressure from interest earned on funds held for clients. Employer services' client revenue retention rate improved 170 basis points to 92.2%. Earnings before income taxes for employer services was flat due to increased expenses such as incentive compensation costs, investments in sales organization, amortization expense, and foreign currency. PEo services' revenues increased 7%, and 8% excluding zero-margin benefits pass-through costs, due to an increase in the number of new clients and a decrease in pays per control. PEo services' earnings before income taxes increased 18% due to increased revenues, partially offset by increases in expenses due to increase in zero-margin benefits pass-through costs and selling expenses. PEo services' overall margin increased due to increased revenues, change in estimated losses related to adp indemnity and decrease in selling expenses.

Operating Income: Operating Income increased in fiscal 2021 due to increased revenues, partially offset by increased expenses. Overall margin increased due to operational efficiencies, reduced costs, changes in estimated losses, decreased selling expense, and decreased interest expense, partially offset by increased incentive compensation costs, decreased interest earned, and growth in zero-margin benefits pass-throughs. Adjusted EBIT and Adjusted EBIT Margin exclude certain interest amounts, legal settlements, gain on sale of assets, net charges related to transformation initiatives and the impact of net severance charges.

Liquidity: As of June 30, 2021, the company had $2.6 billion in cash and cash equivalents, primarily invested in time deposits and money market funds. It also had $9.7 billion in committed credit facilities and access to long-term and short-term debt financing from the capital markets. The company also had access to short-term commercial paper and reverse repurchase agreements to meet client funds liquidity requirements. Net cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities increased due to a net favorable change in operating assets and liabilities, proceeds and purchases of corporate and client funds marketable securities, and cash flows from client funds obligations. The company purchased 8.2 million shares of common stock at an average price of $170.04 during fiscal 2021 and may repurchase shares under its authorized share repurchase program.

Debt: Debt: $3.0 billion of senior unsecured notes with maturity dates in 2025, 2028, and 2030; $9.7 billion available under credit facilities; $34,403.8 million expected to be paid in the next 12 months for obligations related to unrecognized tax benefits; $10.0 million estimated contributions to defined benefit plans in fiscal 2022. Operating Leases: Various facilities and equipment leases with fixed payment terms based on the passage of time, with payment of maintenance and real estate taxes and escalation provisions based on future adjustments in price indices. Reinsurance: ADP Indemnity paid a premium of $260 million in July 2021 to enter into a reinsurance agreement with Chubb to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for the fiscal 2022 policy year. Purchase Obligations: $260 million reinsurance premium with Chubb for the fiscal 2022 policy year, obligations related to software subscription licenses and purchase and maintenance agreements on software, equipment, and other assets. Compensation and Benefits: Amounts associated with employee benefit plans and other compensation arrangements, excluding estimated contributions to defined benefit plans. Commercial Paper Program: Up to $9.7 billion in aggregate maturity value rated A-1+ by Standard and Poor’s, Prime-1 by Moody’s and F1+ by Fitch. Reverse Repurchase Agreements: Secured by 39 government and government agency securities; $23.5 million outstanding as of June 30, 2021. Investment Portfolio: No asset-backed securities with underlying collateral of sub-prime mortgages, alternative-A mortgages, sub-prime auto loans or sub-prime home equity loans, collateralized debt obligations, collateralized loan obligations, credit default swaps, derivatives, auction rate securities, structured investment vehicles or non-investment grade fixed-income securities. Capital Expenditures: $178.3 million for fiscal 2021; expected to be between $200 million and $225 million for fiscal 2022.

