Business Overview: Cadence enables customers to develop electronic products with its software, hardware, services, and reusable IC design blocks (IP). Its products and services optimize performance, minimize power consumption, reduce design, development, and manufacturing costs, and enable customers to develop complex and innovative electronic products. Cadence completed acquisitions of AWR and Integrand in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 to address the growing radio frequency design activity driven by 5G communications. In the first quarter of fiscal 2021, Cadence entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Numeca, a leader in CFD, mesh generation, multi-physics simulation and optimization. Management uses revenue, certain elements of operating expenses and cash flow from operations to manage its business.

Results of Operations: Fiscal 2020 results of operations compared to fiscal 2019 include increased product and maintenance revenue, higher selling costs, continued investment in research and development, decreased operating expenses due to COVID-19, a 3 percentage point increase in operating margin, and changes in income tax provision.

Revenues: We generate revenue primarily from licensing our software and IP, selling or leasing our emulation and prototyping hardware technology, providing maintenance for our software, hardware and IP, providing engineering services, and earning royalties generated from the use of our IP. In any fiscal year, we expect 85-90% of our revenue to be recurring, including revenue recognized over time from our software arrangements, services, royalties, maintenance on IP licenses and hardware, and operating leases of hardware. The remaining 10-15% is up-front revenue, primarily generated by sales of emulation and prototyping hardware and individual IP licenses. In fiscal 2020 and 2019, product and maintenance revenue increased due to increased investments by our customers in new, complex designs for their products. Services revenue may fluctuate from period to period based on the timing of fulfillment of our services and IP performance obligations. During fiscal 2020 and 2019, revenue in the US and China increased due to increased demand for our products and services. In the first half of fiscal 2020, 13% of our total revenue was generated from customers in China, increasing to 17% in the second half of fiscal 2020. We expect revenue from our customers in China to be consistent, as a percentage of total revenue, with the first half of fiscal 2020. Most of our revenue is transacted in USD, however certain revenue transactions are denominated in foreign currencies.

Gross Profit Margin: Gross Profit Margin: For fiscal 2020 and 2019, cost of revenue as a percentage of related revenue was 32%. This increase was mainly due to increased demand for emulation and prototyping hardware, increased reserves for inventory and the mix of products generating revenue. Cost of services decreased during fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019, due to a higher margin on the mix of services arrangements and temporary savings due to the COVID pandemic.

Operating Income: Operating expenses for fiscal 2020 and 2019 included marketing and sales, research and development, and general and administrative costs. Factors that impacted operating expenses included changes in number of employees, stock-based compensation, restructuring activities, foreign exchange rate movements, and the impact of variable compensation programs. During fiscal 2020, operating expenses were lower due to measures implemented to contain COVID-19, such as reduced costs for travel, meetings and events. Changes in foreign exchange rates also affected our consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses for fiscal 2020 and 2019 were as a percentage of total revenue 33% and 34%, respectively. Changes in marketing and sales expense were due to increased salary, benefits and other employee-related costs from hiring and acquisitions, variable compensation, and reduced costs for marketing events and travel due to COVID-19. Research and development expense increased due to additional headcount from hiring and acquisitions, variable compensation, and reduced costs for travel due to COVID-19. General and administrative expense increased due to an increase in variable compensation and additional headcount from hiring.

Interest Expense: interest expense for fiscal 2020 and 2019 was comprised of the following: interest expense increased during fiscal 2020, as compared to fiscal 2019, due to borrowings of $350 million under our revolving credit facility during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as a precautionary measure to provide additional liquidity in light of global economic uncertainty. all outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility were repaid in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. for an additional description of our debt arrangements, including our revolving credit facility, see note 3 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 35

Liquidity: Cash flows from operating activities increased in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 due to improved results from operations and timing of cash receipts from customers and disbursements made to vendors. Cash used for investing activities increased in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 due to an increase in cash paid in business combinations, net of cash acquired, and an increase in purchases of property, plant and equipment. Cash used for financing activities decreased in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019 due to a decrease in net cash paid for debt arrangements, partially offset by an increase in payments for repurchases of our common stock. As of January 2, 2021, cash and cash equivalents totaled $928.4 million, and 61% of cash and cash equivalents were held by foreign subsidiaries. Our cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, and cash borrowings available under our revolving credit facility are expected to be sufficient to meet our domestic and international working capital needs and other capital and liquidity requirements, including acquisitions and share repurchases for at least the next 12 months.

Debt: as of january 2, 2021, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, of the $17.6 million, we estimate $16.3 million will be paid or settled within 1 to 3 years, $1.2 million within 3 to 5 years and $0.1 million in more than 5 years. the remaining portion of other long-term contractual obligations is primarily liabilities associated with defined benefit retirement plans and acquisitions.
