Automatic Data Processing (“ADP”) is a leading global provider of cloud-based Human Capital Management (“HCM”) technology solutions to employers around the world. The global COVID-19 pandemic has had a significant impact on the global business environment and on the company’s clients, but ADP continued to provide HCM services. ADP's efforts have also been focused on providing information and tools to help its clients understand and navigate the governmental relief that has been adopted globally. In addition, ADP released a Return to Workplace solution that assists its clients in bringing their employees back to work safely through a comprehensive set of tools designed to streamline the entire process. This year, ADP reached 100,000 clients across its workforce management solutions for the first time, as the pandemic reinforced the need for robust workforce management solutions for its clients.
 
For fiscal 2021, ADP drove revenue growth of 3% for the year, continued to invest for sustainable growth despite market conditions, and managed any non-essential spend prudently. Employer Services New Business Bookings was up 23% for fiscal 2021. ADP’s pays per control metric, which represents the number of employees on ADP clients' payrolls in the United States when measured on a same-store-sales basis for a subset of clients ranging from small to large businesses, turned positive in the fourth quarter resulting in annual growth of negative 3% for fiscal 2021.
 
The company has a strong business model, a highly cash generative business with low capital intensity, and offers a suite of products that provide critical support to its clients’ HCM functions. ADP generates sufficient free cash flow to satisfy its cash dividend and its modest debt obligations, which enables the company to absorb the impact of downturns and remain steadfast in reinvestments, its longer term strategy, and its commitments to shareholder friendly actions. ADP is committed to building upon the past successes by investing in its business through enhancements in research and development and by driving meaningful transformation in the way it operates. ADP’s financial condition remains solid at June 30, 2021 and the company remains well positioned to support its associates and its clients.
 
Revenues for fiscal 2021 increased due to strong retention, new business started from New Business Bookings, an increase in zero-margin benefits pass-throughs and one percentage point of favorability from foreign currency. This increase is partially offset by a one percentage point of pressure from its interest earned on funds held for clients.
 
For the year ended June 30, 2021, operating expenses increased due to the increase in ADP’s Professional Employer Organization (“PEO”) Services zero-margin benefits pass-through costs to $3,092.0 million from $2,907.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively.

Interest expense decreased for the year ended June 30, 2021 primarily due to a decrease in average interest rates for commercial paper borrowings to 0.1% for the year ended June 30, 2021, as compared to 1.6% for the year ended June 30, 2020. This was coupled with a decrease in average daily borrowings under the company’s commercial paper program to $1.6 billion for the year ended June 30, 2021, as compared to $2.7 billion for the year ended June 30, 2020.
 
Earnings before income taxes increased in fiscal 2021 due to the increases in revenues partially offset by the increases in operating expenses.
 
As of June 30, 2021, cash and cash equivalents were $2.6 billion, which were primarily invested in time deposits and money market funds.
 
For corporate liquidity, ADP expects existing cash, cash equivalents, long-term marketable securities, cash flow from operations together with $9.7 billion of committed credit facilities and the company’s ability to access both long-term and short-term debt financing from the capital markets will be adequate to meet ADP’s operating, investing, and financing activities such as regular quarterly dividends, share repurchases, and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. 

For client funds liquidity, ADP has the ability to borrow through its financing arrangements under the U.S. short-term commercial paper program and its U.S., Canadian and United Kingdom short-term reverse repurchase agreements, together with ADP’s $9.7 billion of committed credit facilities and its ability to use corporate liquidity when necessary to meet short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations.
 
Net cash flows provided by operating activities increased due to a net favorable change in the components of operating assets and liabilities as compared to the year ended June 30, 2020.
 
Net cash flows from investing activities changed due to the timing of proceeds and purchases of corporate and client funds marketable securities of $6,771.2 million.
 
Net cash flows from financing activities changed due to a net increase in the cash flow from client funds obligations of $11,549.4 million, which is due to the timing of impounds from ADP’s clients and payments to its clients' employees and other payees, and proceeds from debt issuances. These were partially offset by payments of debt, more cash returned to shareholders via share repurchases and dividends, and settlement of cash flow hedges in fiscal 2021.
 
The company has $3.0 billion of senior unsecured notes with maturity dates in 2025, 2028, and 2030.
 
ADP’s U.S. short-term funding requirements related to client funds are sometimes obtained on an unsecured basis through the issuance of commercial paper. This commercial paper program provides for the issuance of up to $9.7 billion in aggregate maturity value. The company’s commercial paper program is rated A-1+ by Standard and Poor’s, Prime-1 (“P-1”) by Moody’s and F1+ by Fitch.
 
The company varies the maturities of its committed credit facilities to limit the refinancing risk of any one facility. ADP has a $3.75 billion, 364-day credit agreement that matures in June 2022 with a one year term-out option. In addition, ADP has a five-year $2.75 billion credit facility and a five-year $3.2 billion credit facility maturing in June 2024 and June 2026, respectively, each with an accordion feature under which the aggregate commitment can be increased by $500 million, subject to the availability of additional commitments. The primary uses of the credit facilities are to provide liquidity to the commercial paper program and funding for general corporate purposes, if necessary. The company had no borrowings through June 30, 2021 under the credit facilities.
 
ADP’s investment portfolio contains AAA-rated senior tranches of primarily fixed rate auto loan, credit card, equipment lease, and rate reduction receivables, secured predominantly by prime collateral. All collateral on asset-backed securities is performing as expected through June 30, 2021. In addition, ADP owns U.S. government securities which primarily include debt directly issued by Federal Farm Credit Banks and Federal Home Loan Banks.
 
Capital expenditures for fiscal 2021 were $178.3 million, as compared to $168.3 million for fiscal 2020. The company expects capital expenditures in fiscal 2022 to be between $200 million and $225 million.
