Business Overview: Pluralsight is a leading technology workforce development platform committed to closing the global technology skills gap. It offers on-demand, high-quality learning experiences delivered by subject-matter experts, enabling technology leaders to measure and assess skills in real-time and boost productivity. Since 2011, Pluralsight has expanded its platform through internal initiatives and acquisitions, and achieved significant growth in recent periods with revenue increasing 24%, 37%, and 39% in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. It has also acquired Developintelligence to create tailored, hands-on upskilling solutions. Its ability to retain and expand revenue from existing business customers is highlighted by its strong dollar-based net retention rate.

Revenues: % of total revenue in 2020 was from subscription revenue, 28% from professional services, and 3% from other revenue.

Revenue for the year ended Dec. 31, 2020 was $391.9 million, a 24% increase from $316.9 million in 2019. Subscription revenue accounted for 69% of total revenue, professional services accounted for 28%, and other revenue accounted for 3%. The increase was primarily driven by a 26% increase in revenue from business customers, due to sales to new customers and increased sales to existing customers with a dollar-based net retention rate of 109%. Individual customer revenue also increased by $3.0 million. Subscriptions are typically billed in annual installments, with terms ranging from one month to three years for business customers and one year for individual customers. Revenue is recognized ratably as revenue over the subscription period and at a point in time when software is made available to the customer. Professional services revenue consists of consulting, integration, and other services.

Gross Profit Margin: Gross profit increased by 26% from $245.6 million to $309.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to an increase in revenue. Gross margin increased from 77% to 79%, mainly due to a decrease in author fees as a percentage of revenue. Operating expenses increased 15%, due to an increase in employee compensation costs as headcount was added to support growth and an increase in amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs. Interest expense increased due to the interest expense and amortization of debt discount and issuance costs related to the notes issued in March 2019. Other income decreased due to decreases in market interest rates for debt securities.

Operating Income: Operating Income: Employee-related costs are the largest component of our operating expenses, which include salaries and bonuses, equity-based compensation expense, and employee benefit costs. Sales and Marketing expenses consist primarily of employee compensation costs and other costs such as user events, search engine and email marketing, content syndication, lead generation, and online banner and video advertising. Technology and Content costs consist principally of research and development activities including personnel costs, consulting services, other costs associated with platform development efforts, and allocated overhead costs. General and Administrative expenses consist of personnel costs and related expenses for executive, finance, legal, people operations, and administrative personnel, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and equity-based compensation expense; professional fees for external legal, accounting, recruiting, and other consulting services; and allocated overhead costs. Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 of $9.1 million was primarily due to a net loss of $164.1 million and an unfavorable change in operating assets and liabilities of $2.2 million, offset by equity-based compensation of $99.9 million, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs of $27.1 million, amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs of $25.9 million, depreciation of property and equipment of $12.3 million, and amortization of acquired intangible assets of $6.3 million. We monitor business customers, billings, dollar-based net retention rate, and certain related key business metrics to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions.

Liquidity: As of December 31, 2020, our liquidity sources were cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments totaling $503.7 million. We spent $25.0 million in January 2021 for the acquisition of Next Tech, subject to adjustments. Our cash equivalents and investments are primarily money market funds, U.S. treasury securities, U.S. government agency securities, commercial paper, and corporate debt securities. We have financed our operations through sales of equity securities, long-term debt facilities, and net cash provided by operating activities. Our free cash flow for 2020 was negative due to investments to support growth. We expect to continue such investments and generate positive free cash flow over the long term. We believe our existing funds, plus projected cash flows from operations, will be sufficient for at least 12 months. We may need to seek additional equity or debt financing. In connection with the IPO and our up-C structure, we entered into the Tax Receivable Agreement, requiring us to make future payments to the TRA members. Cash provided by financing activities in 2020 was $18.4 million, 2019 was $536.8 million, and 2018 was $200.8 million. Cash provided by investing activities in 2020 was $4.5 million, 2019 was $616.7 million, and 2018 was $12.1 million.

Debt: The principal commitments and contractual obligations of the company as of December 31, 2020 consist of leases for office facilities and other enforceable and legally binding agreements. The table above excludes any obligations under the Tax Receivables Agreement (TRA). In connection with the execution of the merger agreement, an amendment to the TRA was made, entitling the parties to receive an aggregate amount of $127.0 million in full satisfaction of the payment obligation under the TRA. Purchase orders, which represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements, are not included in the table above. The company may enter into agreements in which it agrees to indemnify customers, vendors, lessors, partners, lenders, equity interest holders and other parties with respect to certain matters, including liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors, officers or employees. No demands have been made upon the company to provide indemnification under such agreements and there are no claims that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.

