Business Overview: Progress Software Corp. provides products to develop, deploy and manage high-impact business apps. It operates in three segments: Openedge, Data Connectivity and Integration, and Application Development and Deployment. Its strategic plan and operating model include allocating purchase price of acquired companies to tangible/intangible assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values. It uses discounted cash flow model to value intangible assets, with significant estimates including future cash flows, discount rates, attrition rates and expected tech life cycles. Its estimates of fair value are based on reasonable assumptions.

Results of Operations: Total revenue increased in the fiscal year 2020, primarily due to the acquisitions of Ipswitch in Q2 2019 and Chef in Q4 2020. This was offset by a decrease in license sales in the data connectivity and integration segment. Ipswitch and Chef contributed $67.5 million and $3.8 million in revenue in fiscal year 2020, respectively. Software license revenue decreased in fiscal year 2020 due to a decrease in license sales in the data connectivity and integration segment, partially offset by an increase in Ipswitch license sales. Maintenance and services revenue increased primarily due to the acquisitions of Ipswitch and Chef.Total revenue generated in North America increased by $27.1 million, while total revenue generated outside North America increased by $1.8 million in fiscal year 2020. The increase in North America was primarily due to the acquisitions of Ipswitch and Chef, offset by decreased license sales in the data connectivity and integration segment. Revenue generated in Latin America decreased due to a decrease in license sales in the OpenEdge segment, while revenue generated in Asia Pacific increased slightly, primarily due to the acquisition of Ipswitch. OpenEdge segment revenue increased year-over-year primarily due to the acquisition of Ipswitch, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from currency exchange rates in fiscal year 2020. Data connectivity and integration segment revenue decreased due to the timing of term license renewals by certain OEM partners. Application development and deployment segment revenue increased primarily due to the acquisition of Chef and an increase in professional services revenue.

Liquidity: The decrease in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments of $67.7 million from the end of fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $213.1 million, dividend payments of $29.9 million, repurchases of common stock of $60.0 million, payments of debt obligations in the amount of $11.3 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $6.5 million. Cash outflows were offset by cash inflows from operations of $144.8 million, proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $98.5 million, $5.8 million in cash received from the issuance of common stock, a positive effect of exchange rates on cash of $3.1 million, and proceeds from sale of intangible assets of $0.9 million.Restructuring activities occurred during the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 and the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019, a reduction in positions primarily within the sales and product development functions resulted from a restructuring action.The credit agreement provides for a $301.0 million secured term loan and a $100.0 million secured revolving credit facility. We borrowed an additional $185.0 million under the term loan as part of the modified credit facility. The credit facility matures on April 30, 2024.

Debt: The company has no off-balance sheet arrangements and had contractual obligations of $6.6 million as of November 30, 2020. This includes interest payments on long-term debt, minimum payments under purchase obligations for support service agreements, and unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties. The estimated FY21 payment related to an audit settlement is $0.3 million. The remaining balance is unable to be estimated for the timing of payments.

