Business Overview: Synopsys provides products and services used across the entire silicon to software spectrum, from engineers creating advanced semiconductors to product teams developing advanced electronic systems to software developers seeking to ensure the security and quality of their code. The company is a global leader in supplying the electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design and test integrated circuits (ICs), also known as chips. It also offers semiconductor intellectual property (IP) products, which are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs rather than designing those circuits themselves. It provides software and hardware used to validate the electronic systems that incorporate chips and the software that runs on them. It also provides a broad portfolio of products and services to intelligently address software risks across the customer’s portfolio and at all stages of the application lifecycle. Synopsys has consistently grown its revenue since 2005, despite periods of global economic uncertainty due to its solid execution, leading technologies, strong customer relationships, and its revenue recognition policy which typically approximates three years. It has also adopted the SEC's Release No. 33-10890 to simplify and enhance certain financial disclosure requirements. Its growth strategy is based on maintaining and building on its leadership in its EDA products, expanding and proliferating its IP offerings, driving growth in the software security and quality market, and continuing to expand its product portfolio and its total addressable market.

Results of Operations: Results of Operations for fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020: • Revenues were $4,204.2 million, an increase of $518.9 million or 14%, primarily due to higher revenue resulting from growth across all products and geographies. • Total cost of revenue and operating expenses were $3,469.4 million, an increase of $404.3 million or 13%, primarily due to increases of $342.2 million in employee-related costs resulting from headcount increases through organic growth and acquisitions. • Operating income was $734.8 million, an increase of $114.6 million or 18%, as revenue growth exceeded the growth of costs and expenses. • Effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 was 6.1%, which included a tax benefit of $45.5 million of U.S. federal research tax credit, a foreign derived intangible income (FDII) deduction of $31.2 million, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $94.0 million. • Effective tax rate for fiscal 2020 was (4.0%), which included a tax benefit of $39.2 million of U.S. federal research tax credit, a FDII deduction of $24.3 million, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $72.3 million. • Hungarian tax authority issued a final assessment against our Hungarian subsidiary for fiscal years 2011 through 2013, resulting in an aggregate tax assessment of approximately $25.0 million and interest and penalties of $11.0 million; paid in first quarter of 2018. • Hungarian administrative court ruled against Synopsys Hungary in April 2019, resulting in an unrecognized tax benefit of $17.4 million. • Hungarian Supreme Court heard appeal on November 12, 2020 and remanded the case to the Hungarian administrative court for further proceedings. • Hungarian administrative court reheard the case and again ruled against Synopsys Hungary in April 2021.

Revenues: Revenues are generated from two business segments: the semiconductor &amp; system design segment and the software integrity segment. The semiconductor &amp; system design segment includes eda software, ip &amp; system integration, and hardware products. Revenue allocated to the ip licenses is recognized at a point in time upon the later of the delivery date or the beginning of the license period, and revenue allocated to support is recognized over the support term. Royalties are recognized as revenue in the quarter in which the applicable customer sells its products that incorporate our ip. Revenue related to the customization of certain ip is recognized as “professional services.” Revenue from professional service contracts is recognized over time, generally using costs incurred or hours expended to measure progress. Software integrity products are sold in arrangements that provide customers the right to software licenses, maintenance updates and technical support, with revenue for the combined performance obligation recognized over the term of the arrangement. Revenues are subject to fluctuations due to customer requirements including the timing and value of contract renewals. For fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, revenues increased primarily due to the continued organic growth of our business in most product categories and regions.

Gross Profit Margin: Gross Profit Margin: Decrease in cost of revenue in 2021 compared to 2020 due to increases in personnel-related costs, hardware related costs, and deferred compensation expenses, partially offset by decreases in depreciation and maintenance expense, servicing IP consulting arrangements expense, and amortization of intangible assets.

Interest Expense: the increase in other income (expense) for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020 was primarily due to increase in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets.

Liquidity: We held $1,580.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of October 31, 2021, with a weighted-average credit rating exceeding AA. Approximately $799.1 million of our cash and cash equivalents were domiciled in various foreign jurisdictions. We expect cash from our operating activities to fluctuate due to timing of billings and collections, operating results and tax payments. Cash provided by operating activities increased due to higher operating income and collections. Cash used in investing activities increased due to purchase of short-term investments and acquisitions, partially offset by lower purchases of property and equipment. Cash used in financing activities increased due to higher stock repurchases and income taxes paid for net share settlements.

Debt: We had total contractual and other obligations of $1,092.3 million as of October 31, 2021, with $307.2 million payable within 12 months. This included $588.3 million in lease payment obligations, $301.7 million in purchase obligations and $27.9 million in long-term accrued income taxes. We had $75.0 million in outstanding balance under the term loan and $25.1 million outstanding under the credit agreement in China. The remaining balance of $75.0 million was repaid in full on November 26, 2021.

