Business Overview: Unity is the world's leading platform for creating and operating interactive, real-time 3D content. Q4 2020 saw an average global reach of 2.7 billion monthly active users consuming content created with Unity solutions on 20+ platforms. Applications built with Unity were downloaded 5 billion times per month. The platform consists of two distinct, but connected and synergistic, sets of solutions: Create Solutions and Operate Solutions. Create Solutions are used by content creators to make interactive, real-time 2D and 3D content that can be deployed across 20+ platforms. Operate Solutions enable customers to grow and engage their user base, as well as run and monetize content. Q4 2020 saw the launch of Matchmaker, Mars, Cloud Content Delivery, Lego Microgame, and Unity Forma, as well as the release of new game titles on new console launches. R&D investments, acquisitions, and partnerships are made to enhance and expand the platform. Key metrics are monitored to evaluate the business and make strategic decisions.

Revenues: Revenues: We generate revenue from Create Solutions (subscription fees, professional services), Operate Solutions (revenue-share, usage-based business models), Strategic Partnerships and Other (partnership contracts, asset store, verified solutions partners). Year ended December 31, 2020 compared to year ended December 31, 2019: Increase in revenue due to growth among existing customers, Create Solutions (second quarter 2020 Finger Food acquisition, offset by slowdown of sales cycles due to COVID-19), Operate Solutions (increase in revenue per customer due to higher levels of end-user engagement due to COVID-19).

Gross Profit Margin: .1% of gross profit for the year ended december 31, 2020 was generated from our create solutions, and 28.9% was generated from our operate solutions. Gross Profit Margin for the year ended December 31, 2020 was 74.5%. Cost of revenue increased due to an increase of $21.8 million in hosting costs and $24.7 million in personnel-related and professional services expenses. 71.1% of gross profit was generated from Create Solutions and 28.9% from Operate Solutions. Gross Profit Margin was 74.5%.

Operating Income: Operating expenses: most significant component is personnel-related costs including salaries, wages, sales commissions, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation, and payroll taxes. Estimated $40 million reduced in operating expenses due to covid-19 protocols and precautions. Research and Development: personnel-related costs for design and development of platform, third-party software services, professional services, and allocated overhead. Sales and Marketing: personnel-related costs, advertising and marketing programs, user events, and allocated overhead. General and Administrative: personnel-related costs for finance, legal, human resources, and administrative employees; professional fees for external legal, accounting, and other professional services; and allocated overhead. Non-GAAP Financial Measures: non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP loss from operations to evaluate financial performance. Non-GAAP gross profit excludes stock-based compensation expense and employer tax related to employee stock transactions; Non-GAAP loss from operations excludes stock-based compensation expense, employer tax related to employee stock transactions, amortization of acquired intangible assets expense, and non-cash charitable contribution expense. Non-GAAP net loss and non-GAAP net loss per share excludes stock-based compensation expense, employer tax related to employee stock transactions, amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, and non-cash charitable contribution expense, as well as the related tax effects of these items, plus expense relating to deemed dividends representing excess paid over initial issuance price to repurchase convertible preferred stock.

Interest Expense: Interest Expense: Recognized in 2020 on outstanding balance from $125.0 million credit facility, fully drawn in March and repaid in September. Interest Income and Other Expense, net: Primarily of interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, amortization of premium arising at acquisition of marketable securities, foreign currency remeasurement gains and losses, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Increased in 2020 due to foreign currency remeasurement losses and lower returns on interest-bearing deposits.

Liquidity: Liquidity: As of December 31, 2020, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $1,752.0 million, primarily held for working capital purposes. Since inception, the company has generated losses from operations, resulting in an accumulated deficit of $797.5 million. The company may require additional capital to execute its strategic initiatives and grow its business. Free Cash Flow: Free cash flow, defined as net cash provided by operating activities less cash used for purchases of property and equipment, was $19.9 million in 2020, up from a cash outflow of $67.9 million in 2019. The increase was due to strong performance within the Operate Solutions business and savings in operational expenses due to COVID-19. Financing Activities: In 2020, cash provided by financing activities was $1,701.5 million, primarily from proceeds from Initial Public Offering, convertible preferred stock and common stock, a revolving loan facility, and stock option exercises. In 2019, cash provided by financing activities was $161.5 million, primarily from proceeds from convertible preferred stock and common stock and stock option exercises. Investing Activities: In 2020, cash used in investing activities was $575.2 million, consisting of purchases of marketable securities, cash used in acquisitions, and capital expenditures. In 2019, cash used in investing activities was $219.5 million, consisting of cash used in acquisitions and capital expenditures.

Debt: we have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and did not have any material holdings in variable interest entities as of december 31, 2020. th e following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of december 31, 2020 (in thousands): (1) operating lease obligations consist primarily of obligations for real estate. (2) the substantial majority of our purchase commitments are related to agreements with our data center hosting providers. (3) this table generally excludes amounts related to income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions, since we cannot predict with reasonable reliability the timing of cash settlements to the respective taxing authorities.

