Business Overview: following a review of its bitcoin mining operations in early 2019, we determined to consolidate our activities in a company-owned and managed facility. central to this strategy was the purchase of land in lafayette, ga and the entry into a favorable contract for electricity in the second quarter of 2019. as the company is presently using only a portion of the built-out available electrical load, it is exploring ways to grow and maintain its current operations.

Results of Operations: years ended december 31, 2020 and 2019 revenues. our revenue is primarily derived from cryptocurrency mining which totaled $1,434 during 2020. the increase in revenues is a result of increased bitcoin mining production and bitcoin prices. The company is also entitled to a royalty from the sale of pod5 mining containers manufactured and sold by bit5ive, llc.

Liquidity: We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and continue to generate losses from operations. as of december 31, 2020, our cash and cash equivalents were $236, and our working capital deficit was $1,527. we have historically financed our business through the sale of debt and equity interests. there can be no assurance however that the company will be able to raise additional capital when needed, or at terms deemed acceptable, if at all. the covid-19 pandemic represents a fluid situation that presents a wide range of potential impacts of varying durations for different global geographies. travel restrictions impacting people can restrain our ability to operate, but at present we do not expect these restrictions on personal travel to be material to our business operations or financial results. our primary source of operating funds has been through debt and equity financing. On december 8, 2020, we issued a convertible promissory note in the principal amount of $230 which is convertible, at the option of the holder, into shares of common stock. the 2021 note bears interest at a rate of 8% per annum and will mature in twelve months. on March 5, 2021, the company entered into a securities purchase agreement with bucktown capital, llc (the “investor”) in connection with the paycheck protection program (‘ppp’) investing activities net cash provided by investing activities was $359 for the year ended december 31, 2020. We had no obligations, assets or liabilities which would be considered off–balance sheet arrangements. we do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities.

