Business Overview: The covid-19 pandemic has had, and is expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our business and our employees. as of now remote access remains the primary means of work for a majority of our workforce. our current expectations regarding future performance are subject to significant uncertainty and dependent upon how widespread the virus becomes. Non-gaap results exclude the income statement effects of the acquisition accounting adjustments to deferred revenue, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and transaction expenses related to business combinations. impact of foreign currency our comparative financial results were impacted by fluctuations in the u.s. dollar during the year ended december 31, 2020. other key business metric annual contract value is one of our key performance metrics. 32 ansys, a delaware corporation formed in 1994, develops and globally markets engineering simulation software and services widely used by engineers, designers, researchers and students. During the year ended december 31, 2020, we repurchased 0.7 million shares for $161.0 million at an average price of $233.48 per share under our stock repurchase program. we also consider acquisitions to supplement our global engineering talent, product offerings and distribution channels. We are in talks with a number of potential acquirers in Europe, the U.S. and Asia, as well as with potential partners in the Middle East, Africa and Latin America.

Results of Operations: We continue to experience increased interest by some of our larger customers in enterprise agreements that often include longer-term, time-based licenses. the impacts from currency fluctuations resulted in increased operating income of $12.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2020. as a percentage of revenue, our international and domestic revenues, and our direct and indirect revenues were as follows. The 2020 and 2019 acquisitions contributed $57.9 million to the overall increase in cost of sales and operating expenses, inclusive of intangible asset amortization. The increase in research and development costs was primarily due to the following: increased salaries and other headcount-related costs of $38.0 million. interest income decreased as a result of a lower interest rate environment and the related decrease in the average rate of return on invested cash balances. We expect to continue to make investments in expanding the ease of use and capabilities of our broad portfolio of simulation software products.

Revenues: Acquisition of optis (may 2, 2018) and granta design (february 1, 2019) contributed incremental revenue of $72.9 million. Service revenue, driven primarily by a focus on service offerings that provide on-site mentorship on simulation best practices, training and expanding simulation adoption, increased 39.1%, or 41.5% in constant currency. Interest income increased as a result of an increase in the average rate of return on invested cash balances. Research and development costs increased due to increased salaries, incentive compensation and other headcount-related costs of $41.1 million. The effective tax rate for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 were favorably impacted by tax benefits.

Operating Income: We use non-gaap financial measures to evaluate our historical and prospective financial performance as well as our performance relative to our competitors. These measures exclude the impact of certain items and, therefore, have not been calculated in accordance with gaap. We believe that it is in the best interest of our investors to provide this information to analysts.

Liquidity: The growth in net cash provided by operating activities was impacted by strong customer receipts in the fourth quarter. The growth was further aided by our ability to delay certain income, employment and indirect tax payments to 2021. As the covid-19 crisis lengthens, we continue to experience longer-term payment requests, particularly related to larger contract commitments. In general, it is our intention to permanently reinvest all earnings in excess of previously taxed amounts. however, our 2020 operating cash flow benefited from cash receipts from customer payments originally scheduled to be paid in fy 2021. as of december 31, 2020, 2.8 million shares remained available for repurchase under the program. our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a rule 10b5-1 plan.

Debt: our significant contractual obligations as of december 31, 2020 are summarized below. for additional information, see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k. The carrying values of our term loans were $798.1 million, which is net of $1.9 million of unamortized debt issuance costs.

