Business Overview: we are a leading technology workforce development platform committed to closing the global skills gap. learners on our platform can quickly acquire today’s most valuable technology skills through on-demand, high-quality learning experiences delivered by subject-matter experts. skills can be measured and assessed in real-time providing technology leaders with visibility into the capabilities of their teams. in december 2020, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger, or the merger agreement, with pluralsight holdings, llc. we use our dollar-based net retention rate to measure our ability to retain and expand the revenue generated from our existing business customers. We allocate the fair value of the purchase price of our acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values.

Revenues: we derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of subscriptions to our platform. amounts that have been invoiced are initially recorded as deferred revenue and are generally recognized ratably as revenue over the subscription period. subscriptions that allow the customer to take software on-premise without significant penalty are recognized at a point in time when the software is made available to the customers. we also derive Revenue from providing professional services, which generally consist of consulting, integration, or other services.

Gross Profit Margin: Cost of revenue includes certain direct costs associated with delivering our platform and includes costs for author and instructor fees, amortization of our content library and other acquired intangibles. gross profit was $309.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2020, compared to $245.6 million in 2019, an increase of $63.8 million. We expect our gross margin to increase over the long term primarily due to a decrease in author fees.

Operating Income: our operating expenses are classified as sales and marketing, technology and content, and general and administrative. for each of these categories, the largest component is employee-related costs, which include salaries and bonuses, equity-based compensation expense,. and employee benefit costs. we allocate shared overhead costs such as information technology infrastructure and facility- related costs based on headcount in each category. the net change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in deferred revenue of $62.2 million. We monitor business customers, billings, dollar-based net retention rate, and certain related key business metrics to help us evaluate our business, identify trends, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions.

Liquidity: as of december 31, 2020, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments totaling $503.7 million. this amount does not include $25.0 million we spent in january 2021 in connection with the acquisition of next tech. our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our pace of growth, subscription renewal activity, the timing and extent of spend to support the expansion of sales and marketing activities, technology and content efforts, and future acquisitions. cash provided by investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2020 of $4.5 million. The increase in purchases of property and equipment was largely due to cash paid for. the construction of tenant improvements at our new global headquarters in utah, which was approximately $24.1 million in 2020. cash used in Investing Activities: $616.7 million was spent on investments and the purchase of a business, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of investments.

Debt: through december 31, 2020, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships. our principal commitments and contractual obligations consist of obligations under leases for office facilities. we have not and do not expect to record a tra liability until the tax benefits associated with the exchanges are more-likely-than-not to be realized.

