Business Overview: solarwinds is a leading provider of information technology, or it, infrastructure management software. Our products give organizations worldwide the power to monitor and manage the performance of their it environments. We combine powerful, scalable, affordable, easy to use products with a high-velocity, low-touch sales model.

Results of Operations: revenue our revenue consists of recurring revenue and perpetual license revenue. subscription revenue includes sales of our msp products as well as our cloud infrastructure, application performance management and it service management, or itsm products. We generally invoice subscription agreements monthly based on usage or in advance over the subscription period on either a monthly or annual basis. the on-premises subscription offerings are time-based revenue arrangements recognized at a point in time upon delivery of the software and support is recognized ratably over the contract period. we plan to continue to sell perpetual licenses for these products and not require customers to transition to a subscription pricing model. our approach, which we call the “solarwinds model,” is based on our commitment to building a business that is focused on growth and profitability. for a comparison of our results of operations for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, see part ii, item 7.

Revenues: our total revenue was $1.02 billion and $932.5 million for the years ended december 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We have increased our recurring revenue as a result of the growth in our subscription sales and the continued growth of our maintenance revenue. subscription arr represents the annualized recurring value of all active subscription contracts at the end of a reporting period.  core it management product revenue was $716.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2020. license revenue decreased $20.9 million, or 12.6%, primarily due to decreased sales of our licensed products. We expect our license sales may decline or fluctuate in future periods as a result of the cyber incident. costs to support new customers and additional product offerings of $4.1 million. stockholders’ equity (deficit) and stock-based compensation in the notes to consolidated financial statements. The increase in our provision for losses on accounts receivables is primarily related to a settlement with a distributor, from customers acquired in recent acquisitions and customers potentially impacted by the current economic uncertainty resulting from the covid-19 pandemic. amortization of acquired intangibles increased $5.2 million, or 7.4%, for the year ended december 31, 2020.

Gross Profit Margin: Cost of recurring revenue includes technical support personnel costs, royalty fees, public cloud infrastructure and hosting fees. allocated costs consist of certain facilities, depreciation, benefits and it costs allocated based on headcount. amortization of acquired technologies primarily consists of capitalized costs of technologies acquired in connection with the take private transaction in 2016. we have grown while maintaining high levels of operating efficiency.

Operating Income: operating expenses consists of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses as well as amortization of acquired intangibles. personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, sales commissions and stock-based compensation. our travel costs declined in 2020 due to covid-19 and we expect this to continue for the duration of the pandemic. we define adjusted ebitda as net income or loss, excluding the impact of purchase accounting on total revenue, amortization of acquired intangible assets and developed technology, depreciation expense, stock-based compensation expense and related employer-paid payroll taxes. debt related costs include fees related to our credit agreements, debt refinancing costs and the related write-off of debt issuance costs. As of December 31, 2019, we determined that the intercompany loan will not be repaid and it was reclassified as a capital contribution. Because of these unique characteristics of stock-based compensation and related employer-paid payroll taxes, management excludes these expenses when analyzing the organization’s business performance. We exclude certain expense items resulting from the take private and other acquisitions, such as legal, accounting and advisory fees, changes in fair value of contingent consideration, costs related to integrating the acquired businesses, deferred compensation, severance and retention expense. these estimated investments are in addition to the cyber incident costs and not included in the net cyber incidents costs reported. 51 of the 51 states and Washington, D.C. have invested more than $1 billion in cyber security over the past five years. The majority of these investments have been made by state and local governments, not the federal government.

Interest Expense: interest expense, net decreased by $32.2 million, or 29.8%. The decrease is primarily due to decreases in interest rates on our debt. See note 9. debt in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information.

Liquidity: cash and cash equivalents were $370.5 million as of december 31, 2020. Our international subsidiaries held approximately $163.4 million of cash andcash equivalents, of which 39.6% were held in euros. We intend either to invest our foreign earnings permanently in foreign operations or to remit these earnings to our u.s. entities in a tax-free manner with the exception for immaterial state income taxes. acquisitions in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding our acquisitions. in 2020 we withheld and retired shares of common stock to satisfy $12.1 million of statutory withholding tax requirements that we pay in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities. The cyber incident is expected to negatively impact revenue, profitability and cash flows in 2021 and beyond.

Debt: During the year ended december 31, 2020, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities. The estimated cash interest expense is based upon an interest rate of 2.90%. The total indebtedness was $1.9 billion, with up to $125.0 million of available borrowings under our revolving credit facility.

