Business Overview: surveymonkey’s products enable more than 345,000 organizations to deliver better customer experiences, increase employee retention, and unlock growth and innovation. We are executing against a two-part growth strategy: 1) deliver new features and product tiers to drive platform usage and increase the conversion of free users to paid subscribers. 2) continue investing in product innovation and go-to-market initiatives to win new customers. our current product portfolio is structured into three primary product pillars—surveys, customer experience, and market research. 45 we offer products from our survey andMarket research pillars on a self-serve basis through our website.  We offer a suite of enterprise-grade feedback software solutions from all three pillars throughOur direct sales force.

Results of Operations:  revenue for the year ended december 31, 2020 also included approximately $2.1 million of non-recurring revenue from a one-time surveymonkey audience customer and incremental revenue contributions from our acquisition of getfeedback and usabilla. revenue growth was driven primarily by an increase of $42.5 million, or 65%, in our enterprise sales channel. paying users increased 14% from approximately 720,900 to approximately 820,300. $25.0 million decrease in personnel costs, partially offset by a $7.6 million increase in outside legal, accounting and other professional fees related to being a public company and the acquisition of usabilla and getfeedback. Other non-operating income increased relative the prior year period due to the decrease on debt extinguishment of $0.9 million recognized during year ended december 31, 2018.

Revenues: We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the subscription term, generally ranging from one month to one year, as long as all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Our contracts are generally non-cancellable and do not contain refund provisions. We define arpu as revenue divided by the average number of paying users during the period.

Gross Profit Margin: Our cost of revenue consists primarily of expenses associated with the delivery and distribution of our products to our users. These expenses generally consist of infrastructure costs, personnel costs and other related costs. Our research and development efforts focus on maintaining and enhancing existing products and adding new products. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will increase in absolute dollars in future periods. general and administrative expenses primarily include personnel costs for legal, finance, human resources and other administrative functions. our revenue in each of the quarters presented increased due to increases in the number of paying users and in arpu. revenue growth was driven primarily by our enterprise sales channel. in 2020, revenue from our self-serve channel increaseddue to demand arising from use cases related to the covid-19 pandemic.

Operating Income: we review a number of operating and financial metrics, including the following key metrics. we believe that, in addition to our results determined in accordance with gaap, free cash flow, a non-gaap financial measure, is useful in evaluating our business, results of operations andfinancial condition.

Interest Expense: interest expense consists of interest on our credit facilities. for the year ended december 31, 2018 (which was prior to. our adoption of asc 842 on january 1, 2019), interest expense also included interest. on financing obligations related to our corporate headquarters. See note 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k.

Liquidity: as of december 31, 2020 and 2019, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents totaling $224.4 million and $131.0 million. since our inception, we have financed our operations primarily through payments received from our customers, borrowings under credit facilities and lines of credit, and our initial public offering in 2018. we believe our financial resources will allow us to manage the potential impacts of covid-19 on our business operations for the foreseeable future. During the year ended december 31, 2018, cash provided by operating activities was $45.4 million, primarily due to our net loss of $154.7 million. non-cash charges primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, bad debt expense and deferred income taxes. as our business grows, we expect our capital expenditures to continue to increase. We define free flow as gaap net cash flow less purchases of property and equipment, and capitalized internal-use software.

Debt: We did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities. our principal commitments consist of obligations under our credit facilities and leases for office space. as of december 31, 2020, the future non-cancelable minimum payments under these commitments were as follows:

