Business Overview: slack is a new layer of the business technology stack where people can work together more effectively. It is used to review job candidates, coordinate election coverage, diagnose network problems, negotiate budgets, plan marketing campaigns, approve menus, and organize disaster response teams. slack provides an easy way for users to share and aggregate information from other software.

Results of Operations: The ownership interest of minority investors in slack fund is recorded as a noncontrolling interest. 80   revenue and cost of revenue revenue increased $229.9 million, or 57%. The increase in revenue was primarily due to expansion within our existing paid customers, as reflected by our net dollar retention rate of 132% as of january 31, 2020.

Revenues: we generate substantially all of our revenue through sales of subscriptions of slack to organizations. we recognize subscription revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract subscription period beginning on the date access to slack is granted. our subscriptions are generally non-cancellable and typically do not contain general rights of return. professional services revenue has not been material to date. provision for (benefit from) income tax the benefit from income taxes was $0.3 million for the year ended january 31, 2021. The tax benefit resulting from stock-based compensation in our foreign jurisdictions was primarily related to the tax benefits in those countries.

Gross Profit Margin: cost of revenue consists primarily of expenses related to hosting slack and providing ongoing customer support for paid customers. these expenses include employee compensation (including stock-based compensation) and other employee-related expenses. payments to outside service providers, third-party hosting costs, payment processing fees, and amortization expense associated with internally-developed and purchased technology.

Operating Income: Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, expenses associated with our marketing and business development programs, including frontiers, our annual user conference. sales commissions that are directly related to acquiring sales contracts, as well as associated payroll taxes, are deferred upon execution of a non-cancellable contract with an organization. our research and development efforts focus on maintaining and enhancing existing functionality of, and adding new functionality to, slack. We review the following key business metrics to measure our performance, identify trends, formulate financial projections, and make strategic decisions. We are not aware of any uniform standards for calculating these key metrics, which may hinder comparability with other companies who may calculate similarly-titled metrics in a different way. Once an organization has three or more users on a paid subscription plan, we count them as paid customers.

Interest Expense: in April 2020, we completed the private offering of the notes, issuing $862.5 million aggregate principal amount of 0.50% convertible senior notes due april 15, 2025. Interest income and other income, net consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities.

Liquidity:  cash and cash equivalents are comprised of bank deposits, money market funds, certificates of deposit, and u.s. government securities. restricted cash consists of cash deposited with financial institutions as collateral for our obligations under the facility leases in san francisco, california and denver, colorado. We expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future due to the investments that we intend to make in our business. if we are unable to raise additional capital when desired and at reasonable rates, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. on december 1, 2020 we entered into the merger agreement with salesforce. We believe that free cash flow is a useful indicator of liquidity that provides information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated from our core operations. during the year ended january 31, 2020, operating activities used $12.4 million in cash. the primary factors affecting our operating cash flows during this period were our net loss of $138.9 million, impacted by $39.2 million non-cash charges and $58.7 million of cash provided from changes in operating assets and liabilities.

Debt: as of january 31, 2021, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities. our principal contractual commitments primarily consist of the convertible senior notes and obligations under leases for office space and datacenter operations. the $862.5 million in principal is due april 2025.

