Business Overview: cerence builds ai powered virtual assistants for the mobility/transportation market. Our primary target is the automobile market, but our solutions can apply to all forms of transportation including but not limited to two-wheel vehicles, planes, tractors, cruise ships and elevators. We generate revenue primarily by selling software licenses and cloud-connected services. we may identify certain pre-acquisition contingencies. in evaluating our financial condition and operating performance, we focus on revenue, operating margins, and cash flow from operations. during fiscal year 202 1 , t otal cost of revenues decreased by 6.3% , primarily driven by our cost savings initiatives. restructuring and other costs, net decreased $11.4 million as expenditures to establish the cerence business as a standalone public company were not repeated in fiscal 2021.

Results of Operations: Our total revenues for fiscal year 2020 were $331.0 million, an increase of $27.7 million. This growth was primarily driven by increased demand for our connected and professional solutions. The global automotive industry is experiencing a semiconductor shortage. We are unable to predict the full extent this will have on our business. The decrease in cost of revenues resulted primarily from our cost savings initiatives implemented in the second half of fiscal 2020. The increase in gross profit of $19.1 million, or 9.4%, was primarily driven by increased demand for our connected services solutions and professional services. Cost of license revenues increased due to third-party royalty expenses associated with external technologies we leverage in our edge software components. Cost of connected services revenue decreased primarily as a result of lower internal allocated costs. professional services gross profit increased $3.3 million, or 313.5%. r&amp;d expenses are our largest operating expense as we continue to build on our existing software platforms and develop new technologies. other income (expense), net and provision for income taxes are non-operating expenses. We experienced a reduction of $1.1 million in travel-related expenditures as a result of covid-19. The decrease was partly offset by stock-based compensation expenses, which increased $3.4 million. Sales and marketing expenses decreased by 2.2 percentage points from 18.8% for fiscal year 2019 to 16.6%. There were no acquisition-related costs for fiscal year 2020, which resulted in a decrease of $0.9 million. acquisition costs decreased as a direct result of integration, legal, and other professional fees incurred resulting from the acquisition of voicebox on april 2, 2018. As of september 30, 2021, we had $166.2 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities.

Operating Income: Our revenue consists of license revenue, connected services revenue and revenue from professional services. our operating expenses include r&amp;d, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. restructuring and other costs, net include restructuring expenses as well as other charges that are unusual in nature, are the result of unplanned events, and arise outside the ordinary course of our business.

Liquidity: Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2021, 2020, and 2019, as reflected in the audited consolidated and combined statements of cash flows included in item 8 of this form 10-k. Increase in cashflows were the result of $169.8 million net proceeds from the issuance of the notes, $123.6 million principal payments of long-term debt and $153.0 million distribution paid to nuance. In an effort to refinance our debt structure, we issued $175.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.00% convertible senior notes due 2025. the covid-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy and created significant volatility and disruption of financial markets. an extended period of economic disruption could materially affect our business, results of operations, ability to meet debt covenants, access to sources of liquidity and financial condition. $155.3 million was recorded as debt and $19.7 million as additional paid-in capital in stockholders’ equity. The interest expense recognized related to the notes for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2021 and 2020 was as follows. If one or more holders elect to convert their notes at a time when any such notes are convertible, we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation.

Debt: we have entered into a number of facility and equipment leases which qualify as operating leases under gaap. for financing leases, amortization of the finance right of use assets is included within research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative lines. we bifurcate the debt and equity (the contingently convertible feature) components of our convertible debt instruments in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of issuance. We entered into amendment no. 1 to the credit agreement (the “amendment”). the amendment extended the scheduled maturity date of the revolving credit and term facilities from june 12, 2024 to april 1, 2025. The amendment revised the amount by which we are obligated to make quarterly principal payments through the fiscal quarter ending december 31, 2022. For the three months ended september 30, 2021, the interest rate was libor plus 2.25%.

