Business Overview: We offer the market-leading software intelligence platform, purpose-built for dynamic multicloud environments. Our products are trusted by approximately 2,900 dynatrace customers in 90 countries in diverse industries such as banking, insurance, retail, manufacturing, travel and software. We target the largest 15,000 global enterprise accounts, which generally have annual revenues in excess of $1 billion.

Results of Operations: our subscription revenue increased to 93% of total revenue for the year ended march 31, 2021. license license revenue decreased by $11.2 million, or 89%. The decrease was the result of a decline in sales of perpetual and term licenses for our classic products. The increase was primarily due to the growth of the dynatrace platform. Partially offsetting this decrease was a 24% increase in headcount, resulting in an increase of $7.4 million in personnel costs. sponsorship related costs were reduced to zero as we stopped incurring these costs upon completion of our initial public offering. amortization of acquired technologies includes $16.2 million and $17.7 million for technology acquired in connection with the thoma bravo funds’ acquisition of us in 2014. higher share-based compensation costs decreased gross profit by $3.9 million compared to the last fiscal year. research and development expenses increased $42.5 million, or 55%, for the year ended march 31, 2020. sales and marketing expenses were up $87.3 million as a result of a 14% increase in headcount.

Revenues: revenue includes subscriptions, licenses and services. over the past year, total arr has grown by $201 million, or 35%. this growth was the result of a $62 million increase in arr from new customer additions. we exclude from our calculation of arr any revenues derived from month-to-month agreements and/or product usage overage billings.

Gross Profit Margin: Cost of subscription revenue includes salaries, benefits, share-based compensation and related expenses such as employer taxes, allocated overhead for facilities, it, third-party hosting fees related to our cloud services, and amortization of internally developed capitalized software technology. expense for technology acquired in business combinations and the thoma bravo funds’ acquisition of us in 2014.

Operating Income: personnel costs, which consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, share-based compensation and sales commissions, are the most significant component of our operating expenses. We focus our research and development efforts on developing new solutions, core technologies, and to further enhance the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing solutions. restructuring and other expenses primarily consists of various restructuring activities we have undertaken to achieve strategic and financial objectives. for the year ended march 31, 2019, cash provided by operating activities was $147.1 million. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of an increase in deferred revenue of $127.0 million due to the timing of billings and cash received in advance of revenue recognition.

Liquidity: as of march 31, 2021, we had $325.0 million of cash and cash equivalents and $44.4 million available under our revolving credit facility. future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts. if we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely affected.

Debt: we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. under various agreements, we are obligated to make future cash payments. as of march 31, 2021, the balance outstanding under our first lien term loan was $401.1 million. we had $44.4 million available under the revolving credit facility after considering $15.6 million of letters of credit outstanding.

