Business Overview: Our vision is to become the leading one-stop solution that helps millions of businesses around the world manage their financial operations. on june 1, 2021, we completed our acquisition of divvypay, inc (divvy), a leading provider of cloud-based spend management application and smart corporate cards to smbs in the u.s. following the acquisition, divvy became our wholly owned subsidiary. our total revenue and net losses during fiscal 2021 were $238.3 million and $98.7 million, respectively. We efficiently reach smbs through our proven direct and indirect go-to-market strategies. over 85% of our subscription and transaction revenue came from customers who were acquired prior to the start of the fiscal year. we expand within our existing customer base by adding more users, increasing transactions per customer, launching additional products, and through pricing and packaging our services. obligations incurred by the spending business in connection with their purchase transaction are reflected as receivables on the bank’s balance sheet. The bank then sells a 100% participation interest in the receivable to us. As of june 30, 2021, we had $155.0 million in committed credit facility capacity, with $77.5 million drawn.

Results of Operations: The following table presents the components of our consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented as a percentage of total revenue. (1) includes the results of divvy from the acquisition date on june 1, 2021. subscription and transaction fees increased to $232.3 million during fiscal 2021 from $136.4 millionDuring fiscal 2020, an increase of $95.9 million or 70%. 61 interest on funds held for customers decreased to  $ 6.0 million. the decrease in yield was due mainly to the u.s. federal reserve’s action to cut the federal funds rate during calendar year 20 20. As a percentage of total revenue, sales and marketing expenses increased to 29% during fiscal 2020 from 27%. higher personnel-related costs, including non-cash stock-based compensation expense, relative to the increase in our revenue. We acquire card receivables pursuant to our contracts with certain issuing banks. we establish an allowance for credit losses based on an estimate of uncollectible balances.

Revenues: We generate revenue from two sources: (1) subscription and transaction fees, and (2) interest on funds held for customers. subscription fees are fixed monthly or annually and charged to our customers for the use of our platform to process transactions. We recognize implementation fees based on the proportion of transactions processed to the total estimated transactions to be processed over the contract period. much of our revenue comes from repeat transactions, which are an important contributor to our recurring revenue. interest is earned from interest-bearing deposit accounts, certificates of deposit, money market funds, commercial paper, and u.s. treasury securities. to grow revenue from customers we must deliver a product experience that helps them automate their back-office financial operations.

Gross Profit Margin: Cost of revenue, gross profit, and gross margin during fiscal 2021 and 2020 were as follows (amounts in thousands): (1) includes the results of divvy from the acquisition date on june 1, 2021. (2) Includes amortized costs for implementing and integrating our cloud-based platform into our strategic partners’ systems.

Operating Income: to supplement our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with gaap, we use certain non-gaap financial measures. These measures provide an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our core financial performance over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. We believe that these key business metrics provide meaningful supplemental information for management and investors in assessing our historical and future operating performance.

Liquidity: on november 30, 2020, we issued $1.15 billion in aggregate principal amount of our 0% convertible senior notes (2025 notes) due on december 1, 2025. if the note holders exercise their right to convert, our current intent is to settle such conversion through a combination settlement involving a repayment of the principal portion in cash and the balance in shares of common stock. we believe that our cash, cash equivalents, available-for-sale short-term investments, and funds available under our lines of credit will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months.  net cash provided by financing. activities increased to $1.6 billion during fiscal 2021 from $863.1 million during. fiscal 2020 due primarily to the proceeds from the issuance of. the 2025 notes, increase in exercises of stock options, and increase. in employee purchases of common stock under our espp. offset by the purchase of capped calls in connection with the. issuance and repayment of our line of credit borrowings.

Debt: we are contractually obligated to purchase all card receivables from u.s. based card issuing banks (issuing banks) including authorized transactions that have not cleared. our expected credit losses with respect to these transactions was not significant as of june 30, 2021. the company accounts for its convertible senior notes (notes) by separating the principal amount into liability and equity components. our principal commitments to settle our contractual obligations are as follows as of june 30, 2021 (in thousands): The total outstanding borrowings from the 71 class a and class b facilities, which bear interest at 2.75% and 10.25% per annum, respectively, plus libor (subject to a floor rate of 0. 25%) , were $37.5 million and $10.0 million. The 2021 revolving credit agreement matures in 2023 or earlier.

