Business Overview: zoominfo is a leading go-to-market intelligence platform for sales and marketing professionals. Our cloud-based platform provides highly accurate and comprehensive information and insights on the organizations and professionals they target. In february 2019, we acquired pre-acquisition zi and subsequently the combined business has been re-branded as zoominfo. we generate less than 10% of revenue from customers outside the united states. over 850 customers contracted for more than $100,000 in acv for zoominfo services. to address our market opportunity, we have built and continue to tune our efficient go-to-market engine. we are constantly improving the effectiveness of our engine in order to identify and close more business.

Revenues: 99% of our revenue from subscription services and the remainder from recurring usage-based services. unearned revenue results from cash received or amounts billed to customers in advance of revenue recognized upon the satisfaction of performance obligations. email verification service revenue is recognized in the period services are utilized by our customers. cost of service was $107.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2020, an increase of $38.8 million, or 57%. Loss on debt extinguishment was $14.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2020, related to penalties and derecognition of deferred and unamortized debt issuance costs resulting from the repayment of the second lien term loans. Revenue increased by $149.1 million, or 103%, as compared to $144.3 million. The increase was primarily due to new customers acquired in the acquisitions of pre-acquisition zi, neverbounce, and komiko. operating expenses were $188.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2019, an increase of $108.7 million, or 136%. The increase was primarily due to increases in sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. The pro forma results shown above are provided for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the operating results.

Gross Profit Margin: gross profit is revenue less cost of service. gross profit has been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including leveraging economies of scale. The level of amortization of acquired technology, and the extent to which we expand our customer support and research organizations. we expect that our gross margin will fluctuate from period to period.

Operating Income:  operating expenses also include overhead costs for facilities, technology, professional fees, depreciation and amortization expense, and marketing. research and development expenses support our efforts to enhance our existing platform and develop new software products. restructuring and transaction expenses. include consolidation of offices and responsibilities, office relocation, administrative cost structure realignment. and acquisition-related professional services fees. in addition to our results determined in accordance with u.s. gaap, we believe certain non-gaap measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. These measures include, but are not limited to, adjusted operating income and adjusted ebitda. We believe this information is useful to investors because it eliminates certain items that affect period-over-period comparability. It provides consistency with past financial performance and additional information about our underlying results and trends. adjusted ebitda is presented because it is used by management to evaluate our financial performance and for planning and forecasting purposes. we define adjusted operating income as income from operations plus (i) impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue, (ii) amortization of acquired technology and other acquired intangibles, and (iv) restructuring and transaction-related expenses. adjusted net income is presented because it is used by management to evaluate our financial performance and for planning and forecasting purposes. fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue relate to services billed by an acquired company, including pre-acquisition zi, prior to our acquisition of that company. (c) represents costs directly associated with acquisition or disposal activities. for the year ended december 31, 2020, this expense related primarily to the preparation for an initial public offering and deferred acquisition cost revaluations.

Interest Expense: interest expense represents the interest payable on our debt obligations and the amortization of debt discounts and debt issuance costs, less interest income. We anticipate that our interest expense will be substantially lower after having repaid a portion of our outstanding indebtedness with the proceeds from the ipo.

Liquidity: We believe that our cash flows from operations and existing available cash and cash equivalents, together with our other available external financing sources, will be adequate to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. as of december 31, 2020, we had unearned revenue of $222.7 million, of which $221.3 million was recorded as a current liability. zoominfo technologies inc. has no independent means of generating revenue. We may continue to make future acquisitions as part of our business strategy. restructuring and transaction-related cash costs for the year ended december 31, 2020 primarily related to cash ipo costs and are not expected to recur. future borrowings may not be available from additional indebtedness or otherwise to meet our liquidity needs. if we decide to pursue one or more significant acquisitions, we may incur additional debt or sell additional equity to finance such acquisitions. see “risk factors” future demands on our capital resources associated with transaction expenses and restructuring activities and integration costs will be dependent on the frequency and magnitude of future acquisitions. as part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to pursue acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary businesses from time to time. cash used in investing activities for the year ended december 31, 2019 was $723.1 million and purchases of property and equipment and other assets of $13.6 million.

Debt: as of december 31, 2020, there were “no off-balance sheet arrangements,” as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of regulation s-k. indebtedness is discussed in note 8 - financing arrangements to our consolidated financial statements. The amounts included in the table above represent agreements that are enforceable and legally binding; any obligations under contracts that we can cancel without significant penalty are not included here. credit agreement ebitda for the 12 months ended december 31, 2020 was $291.5 million. (b) represents the impact of fair value adjustments to acquired unearned revenue relating to services billed by an acquired company prior to our acquisition of that company. 80 represents costs directly associated with acquisition or disposal activities, including employee severance and termination benefits, contract termination fees and penalties.

