Business Overview: fair value valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination under asc 805 requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. critical estimates in determining the fair value of certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from customer contracts, customer lists, and acquired developed technologies and patents. we are contemplating and may pursue, subject to any required regulatory approvals, a separation of our product business and ip licensing business through a tax-efficient transaction.

Results of Operations: significant events occurred over the past three years that affect the comparability of our financial statements. revenue we generate our revenue from the following principal activities. license agreements we operate in two business segments. in our product segment, we license our audio, digital radio, imaging, edge-based machine learning and multi-channel video user experience (“ux”) solutions. We license semiconductor technologies and associated patent portfolios to memory, sensors, rf component, and foundry companies. estimating licensees’ quarterly royalties prior to receiving the royalty reports requires us to make significant assumptions and judgments related to forecasted trends and growth rates. We have two types of arrangements with msos that include technology deployment and engineering services. In instances where we host the tivo service, non-refundable payments received for customization and set-up services are deferred and recognized as revenue ratably over the hosting term. These increases in revenue were partially offset by a decrease in per-unit royalty revenue from existing licensing agreements. cost of hardware revenue, excluding depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, for the year ended december 31, 2020 was $21.1 million. Research, development and other related costs (“r&amp;d expense”) are comprised of employee-related costs, stock-based compensation expense, engineering consulting expenses associated with new product and technology development. depreciation expense 56 depreciation expense was $17.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2020. amortization expenses will continue to be a significant expense since we acquired approximately $878.0 million in intangible assets. litigation expense may fluctuate between periods because of planned or ongoing litigation, as described in part i, item 3 – legal proceedings. The unallocated operating expenses were $249.1 million compared to $117.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2019. The increase of $131.4 million was due primarily to the inclusion of tivo expenses, one-time merger related transaction costs, post-merger severance and retention costs. the revenue and operating income (loss) amounts in this section have been presented on a basis consistent with gaap applied at the segment level.

Revenues: (1) excludes operating expenses which are not allocated on a segment basis. revenue in 2020, as compared to 2019, was primarily attributable to the inclusion of tivo revenue since the mergers. operating income for the years ended december 31, 2020 and 2019 was $402.6 million and $37.4 million, respectively, which represented an increase of $365.2 million.

Liquidity: Our primary sources of liquidity and capital resources are our operating cash flows and our short-term investments. cash and cash equivalents totaled $170.2 million at december 31, 2020, an increase of $95.6 million from $74.8 million in 2019. We maintain a diversified portfolio of securities including money market funds and debt securities. we invest predominantly in high quality investment grade debt with less than three years to maturity. for 2019 and 2018, we did not record any impairment charges related to our afs debt securities. at december 31, 2020, $873.8 million was outstanding under the 2020 term b loan facility with an interest rate, including amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, of 5.1%. We repaid $734.6 million of assumed tivo debt with the proceeds from a new borrowing of $1,050 million discussed below.  xperi paid quarterly dividends of $0.20 per share in each of march, june, september and december. from 2018 through 2020, we generated approximately $732 million of cash flows from operating activities. we believe that based on current levels of operations and anticipated growth, our cash from operations, together with cash, cash equivalents and investments currently available, will be sufficient to fund our operations.

Debt: as of december 31, 2020, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of regulation s-k. We have agreements to receive payments of approximately $32.1 million under subleases through 2026. we had accrued $94.4 million of unrecognized tax benefits in long-term income taxes payable related to uncertain tax positions.

