Business Overview: digital turbine, inc., through its subsidiaries, simplifies content discovery and delivers it directly to mobile devices. through march 31, 2021, digital turbine's technology platform has been adopted by over 35 mobile operators and device original equipment manufacturers ("oems") and has delivered more than 5.3 billion application preloads for tens of thousands of advertising campaigns.

Results of Operations: all discussions in this item 7, management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, unless otherwise noted, relate to the remaining continuing operations in our sole operating segment after the dispositions. Media distribution business, primarily through silent application delivery, was the main driver of our revenues. application media revenue totaled $217,447 and $133,898, respectively, for the years ended march 31, 2021 and 2020. During the year ended march 31, 2020, one major customer, oath inc., a subsidiary of verizon communications, represented 15.3% of net revenues. 53 with respect to partner revenue concentration, the company partners with mobile carriers and oems to deliver applications on our platform through the carrier network.

Revenues: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Please submit your best shots of the U.S. for next week. Send your photos to jennifer.smith@mailonline.co.uk. Visit CNN. com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.

Operating Income: The company's net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $62,795 and $33,670, respectively, an increase of $29,125, or 86.5%. The increase was primarily attributable to depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, and changes in working capital accounts. The change in fair value of warrant liability was a result of the settlement of all outstanding warrants related to the convertible notes during fiscal year 2020. license fees and revenue share, as a percent of revenue, for the years ended march 31, 2021 and 2020 were approximately 57% and 60%. product development expenses include the development and maintenance of the company's product suite. general and administrative expenses represent management, finance, and support talent costs in both the parent and subsidiary companies. sales and marketing expenses for the years ended march 31, 2020 and 2019 were approximately $11,244 and $8,212, respectively. increased commissions associated with the sales team generating more revenue through new and existing advertising relationships and markets. employee-related expenses as a function of higher headcount, increased stock option expense, increase in depreciation and amortization related to capitalized internal-use software.

Interest Expense: Fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 total interest and other income / (expense), net, for the years ended march 31, 2021 and 2020 were $(17,352) and $(9,307), respectively, an increase in net expenses of $8,045 or 86.4%. This change was primarily attributable to changes in interest income, fair value of warrant liability, and estimated contingent consideration related to the mobile posse acquisition. In fiscal 2019, the company had no outstanding debt and incurred no interest expense.

Liquidity: The company anticipates that its primary sources of liquidity will continue to be cash-on-hand, cash provided by operations, and the credit available under the company's senior credit facility. The company believes that it has sufficient cash and capital resources to operate its business for at least twelve months from the filing date of this annual report on form 10-k.

Debt: we do not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partners, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. we believe, therefore, that we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market, or credit risks that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. on february 3, 2021, the company entered into a credit agreement with bank of america, n.a. (the “bank”), which provides for a revolving line of credit of $100,000. the company accounts for the warrants issued in connection with the above-noted sale of notes in accordance with us gaap accounting guidance under asc 815. The warrants are subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date, with any change in fair value recognized as a component of other income / (expense), net. on february 3, 2021, the company entered into a credit agreement with bank of america, n.a. (the “bank”), which provides for a revolving line of credit of $100,000. if the loan parties acquire any real. property assets with a fair market value in excess of $5,000, they are required to grant a. security interest in such real property as well. all such security interests are needed to be first priority security. interests, subject to certain permitted liens.

