Business Overview: our consolidated operations consist of our corecard software subsidiary and its affiliate companies in romania, india and dubai, as well as a corporate office in atlanta, georgia which provides significant administrative, human resources and executive management support. we provide technology solutions and processing services to the financial services market, commonly referred to as the fintech industry. in october 2020, we opened offices in dubai, united arab emirates and chennai, india to support corecard’s expansion of processing services into new markets. our revenue fluctuates from period to period and our results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in future periods. we continue to maintain a strong cash position.

Results of Operations: the following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated. financial statements and the notes to consolidated financial. statements presented in this annual report. For confidential support, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 or visit http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/.

Revenues: – total revenue for the year ended december 31, 2020 was $35,873,000. – This represents a 5 percent increase over 2019.– This is an increase of $1.2 million, or 0.7 percent, on the same period last year. It is the largest increase in the company's history.

Gross Profit Margin: Cost of revenue includes costs to provide annual maintenance and support services to our installed base of licensed customers. Cost and gross margins on such revenues can vary considerably from period to period. We continue to devote the resources necessary to support our growing processing business, including direct costs for regulatory compliance, infrastructure, network certifications and customer support.

Operating Income: For the twelve months ended december 31, 2020, total operating expenses from consolidated operations were slightly lower as compared to the corresponding period in 2019. Research and development expenses were lower mainly due to lower recognition-based bonus accruals, partially offset by higher payroll and related expense for additional offshore technical personnel. marketing expenses decreased in 2020 as we continued to place less focus on marketing initiatives for corecard.

Liquidity: During the year ended december 31, 2020, cash provided by operations was $20,966,000. The increase is primarily due to lower accounts receivable, an increase in cash held for program management funding, higher depreciation and non-cash investment losses. We do not expect to pay any regular or special dividends in the foreseeable future.

