Business Overview: There are risks associated with our dependence on the capital spending patterns of u.s. and international businesses, which in turn are functions of economic trends and conditions over which we have no control. There are opportunities for selective acquisitions or investments to expand our sales distribution channels and/or broaden our product offering.

Revenues: The change in our revenue from period to period is primarily due to the volume of products and related services sold in any period. 48 international revenue represented approximately 15% of total revenue for the year ended april 30, 2021. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses compared to fiscal 2020 was due primarily to lower marketing spend, including a reduction in trade shows and conferences and lower travel costs. license fee revenue increased by 6% when compared to the previous year. scm experienced a 5% increase in license fees primarily due to a few new customers choosing to deploy our software on-premise. dmi is responsible for the bulk of our indirect sales and the commission percentage varies based on whether the sale is domestic or international.

Gross Profit Margin: The total gross margin percentage for the year ended april 30, 2020 increased to 55% when compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase was primarily due to lower agent commission and amortization of intangibles expense and to a lesser extent higher license fee revenue. Our other segment was 2%, 2% and 3% of the company’s professional services and other revenue in fiscal 2021,. 2020 and 2019.

Operating Income: our scm segment operating income decreased by 4% in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to a 5% decrease in revenue. our it consulting segment operating income decreased 66%. The increase in the other segment operating loss was due primarily to an increase in variable compensation and overhead costs, partially offset by a 2% increase in revenue.

Liquidity: We have no debt obligations or off-balance sheet financing arrangements, and therefore we used no cash for debt service purposes. As of april 30, 2021, we had $104.7 million in total cash and investments with no outstanding debt. We believe that our sources of liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to satisfy our presently anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate needs during at least the next twelve months. At some future date we may need to seek additional funds through equity or debt financing. we currently do not have a bank line of credit.

Debt: we are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements that have. or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition. 55 see item 5 of this report, under the caption “market for registrant’s common equity, related stockholder matters, and issuer purchases of equity securities.”

