Business Overview: our payroll and peo client base was greater than 710,000. client retention was at record levels of approximately 85%. in fiscal 2021, we enhanced our solutions to support businesses as they navigate the federal stimulus programs and engage in digital transformation. we have continued to evolve our products to help business leaders find, hire, and retain employees. we continue to strengthen our position in the industry by serving as a source of education and information to clients. we provide free webinars, white papers, and other information on our website to aid existing and prospective clients with the impact of regulatory changes. both this website and www.paychex.com/worx have sections dedicated to the topic of health care reform.

Results of Operations: Adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share are not u.s. generally accepted accounting principle (“gaap”) measures. For further analysis of our results of operations for fiscal years 2021 and 2020, and our financial position as of may 31, 2021, refer to the tables and analysis in the ‘results of operation’ and 'liquidity and capital resources' sections of this item 7.

Revenues: $3.0 billion for fiscal 2021, reflecting an increase of 2%: o payroll client base growth of approximately 4%, due to solid sales performance and record client retention, and ‎ 23 o increased penetration of our suite of solutions, including hr solutions and retirement services.  service revenue is recognized in the period services are rendered and earned under service arrangements with clients where service fees are fixed.

Gross Profit Margin: $32.2 million in fiscal 2021: o acceleration of our long-term strategy to reduce our geographic footprint and headcount optimization. these initiatives will provide us ongoing savings in rent, facilities maintenance, and wage-related expenses.  $1.5 million: Continued focus on reducing the number of employees in the U.S.

Operating Income: We believe these additional measures are indicators of our core business operations performance period over period. One-time costs and corresponding tax benefit recognized related to the acceleration of cost-saving initiatives are not expected to recur. The calculation of the impact of non-gaap adjustments on diluted earnings per share is performed on each line independently. the table may not add down by +/- $0.01 due to rounding. diluted earnings per share was $3.03 per diluted share for fiscal 2021. refer to note c of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for information on dilutive shares outstanding. “Non-gaap financial measures” section below for a discussion of these non-GAap measures and a reconciliation to the most comparable gaap measure.

Liquidity: Our primary source of cash is generated by our ongoing operations. our positive cash flows for fiscal 2021 allowed us to support our business and pay dividends of approximately $909.0 million. We believe that our investments in an unrealized loss position as of may 31, 2021 were not impaired due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns, nor has any event occurred subsequent to that date to indicate any change in our assessment. collections from clients are typically remitted from one to 30 days after receipt, with some items extending to 90 days. For confidential support call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline on 1-800-273-8255, visit a local Samaritans branch or see www.samaritans.org.

Debt: We expect to have access to the amounts available under our current credit facilities to meet our ongoing financial needs. If we experience reductions in our operating cash flows due to any of the risk factors outlined in, but not limited to, item 1a in this form 10-k, we may need to adjust our capital, operating, and other discretionary spending. We have borrowed $800.0 million through the issuance of long-term private placement debt. historically, there have been no material losses related to such guarantees. we have also entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, which require us to defend and, if necessary, indemnify these individuals for certain pending or future legal claims. We currently self-insure the deductible portion of various insured exposures under certain corporate and peo employee health and medical benefit plans.

