Business Overview: The company is a leading supplier of dtm software enabling the paperless, secure and cost-effective management of document-based transactions. Its solutions encompass a wide array of functionality and services, including electronic signatures, simple-to-complex workflow management and various options for biometric authentication. in december 2019, an outbreak of a novel strain of coronavirus (covid-19) originated in wuhan, china and has since spread to a number of other countries. The amount of loan forgiveness may be reduced if the borrower terminates employees or reduces salaries during the period in question. We cannot assure you that we did not take actions that caused the company to be ineligible for forgiveness of the loan, in whole or in part. The company recorded $3 in debt discount amortization for the twelve months ended december 31, 2020 related to its debt financings. The estimated fair value of stock-based compensation awards to employees is amortized on an accrual basis over the vesting period of the options. The company used a simulated probability valuation model to value warrants containing embedded derivative instruments. Revenue from contracts with customers is recognized using the following five steps: identify the contract(s) with a customer, determine the transaction price and allocate the price to the performance obligations. the transaction price is allocated to all separate performance obligations within the contract based on their relative standalone selling prices (“ssp”). the best evidence for ssp is the price the company would charge for that good or service when sold separately in similar circumstances to similar customers. our payment terms do not vary by the type of products or services offered. the term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant.  recurring revenue is recognized on a straight line basis over the contract period, generally one year. maintenance and support services are satisfied ratably over time as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the services. under topic 606, incremental costs of obtaining a contract, such as sales commissions, are capitalized if they are expected to be recovered. The company evaluates the recoverability of its long-lived assets at least annually or whenever circumstances or events indicate such assets might be impaired. estimation of future cash flows from the products considers the following additional factors: customer base, cost of sales and research and development costs. utilization of the company’s net operating losses may be subject to an annual limitation.

Revenues: for the year ended december 31, 2020, total revenue was $966, an increase of $122, or 14%, compared to  revenue of $844 in the prior year. The increase in maintenance revenue is primarily attributable to existing customers renewing maintenance contracts at higher price points.

Gross Profit Margin: for the year ended december 31, 2020, cost of sales was $146, an increase of $25, or 21%, compared to $121 in the prior year. The increase was primarily due to an increased in direct engineering costs associated with the mix of engineering service and software product revenue.

Operating Income:  research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and related costs, outside contract engineering, maintenance items, and allocated facility expenses. sales and marketing expenses were $83, a decrease of $26, or 24%. The decrease was primarily attributable to an increase in sales to non-commissionable accounts. The company recorded $3 in debt discount amortization associated with its short-term borrowings. For the year ended december 31, 2020, other interest expense was $202.  prepaid expenses and other current assets were $10 at december 31, 2020, a decrease of $12, or 55%, compared to $22 in the prior year. short-term debt includes principal amount on notes for $2,649, accounts receivable advances and a ppp loan. The company believes that its use of the loan proceeds meets the conditions for forgiveness. The company entered into a settlement agreement with one of its vendors whereby the company paid $135 in cash and issued a promissory note in the amount of $130 in settlement of approximately $537 in outstanding accounts payable. The company recorded $3 in debt discount amortization for the twelve months ended december 31, 2020 related to prior year debt financings.

Debt: the company had no material commitments as of december 31, 2020. The company is based in New York City and has offices in London and Paris. It is owned by a group of private equity firms, including KPMG, BNP Paribas and The Carlyle Group.

