Business Overview: we develop, sell and support products that protect any-sized company or government organization by fusing advanced threat intelligence with real-time artificial intelligence to neutralize cyberattacks as they occur. we market and distribute our solutions through a direct sales force and value-added resellers. our end-user customers include u.s. federal government entities, state and local government entity, and companies ranging in size from mid-market to large enterprises.

Results of Operations:2020 compared with 2019 is the most recent period for which data is available. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the company reported a net loss of $1.1 billion.

Revenues: Sales and marketing expenses increased to $3.8 million or 57.7% of net revenue in 2020. The increase was primarily two activities: building, training, and preparing a sales department to sell our new commercial product in 2021; and applying a dedicated $1.2 million marketing and promotion budget. We did not meet sales projections for our tracecop product line.

Gross Profit Margin:  gross profit as a percentage of net revenue is impacted by several factors, including shifts in product mix, changes in channels of distribution, sales volume, and fluctuations in manufacturing costs. Gross profit decreased from 60.8% in 2019 to 59.1 percent in 2020 because of higher labor costs related to certain projects.

Interest Expense: interest expense decreased due to a combination of a zero balance under an unsecured revolving promissory note to borrow up to $3,700,000 from g. ward paxton. declining balances in financial leases and remained steady for operating leases. interest expense will vary in the future based on our cash flow and borrowing needs.

Liquidity: our principal source of liquidity at december 31, 2020 was $16.7 million of cash and cash equivalents. operating lease commitments of $2.6 million are detailed in the contractual obligations section below. we expect to fund our operations through anticipated company profits together with the approximately $18 million in net proceeds we received from our secondary public offering. We may explore the possible acquisitions of businesses, technologies that are complementary to our existing business. any equity or debt financings, if available at all, may be on terms, which are not favorable to us. This may result in dilution to our stockholders. For confidential support call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline on 1-800-273-8255 or visit http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/.

Debt: Future minimum lease obligations consisted of the following at december 31, 2020 (in thousands): *interest is imputed for operating leases and classified as lease expense and is included in operating expenses in the accompanying condensed consolidated statement of operations. We did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of regulation s-k.

