Results of Operations: impacts of covid-19 to autodesk’s business we are continuing to conduct business during the pandemic with substantial modifications to employee travel, employee work locations, and virtualization, postponement or cancellation of certain sales and marketing events, among other modifications. we believe our investment in cloud products and a subscription business model, backed by a strong balance sheet, give us a robust foundation to successfully navigate the economic challenges. the extent of the impact on our business in fiscal 2022 and beyond will depend on several factors. increases to the levels of political and economic unpredictability in the global market may impact our future financial results. cost of revenue, at least over the near term, is affected by labor costs, hosting costs for our cloud offerings, the volume and mix of product sales, fluctuations in consulting costs. interest and other expense, net, increased by $34.2 million during fiscal 2021, as compared to fiscal 2020.  foreign operations in the netherlands and canada that generated interest expense and future creditable research in excess of earnings. as of january 31, 2021, we had $198.0 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of which $31.7 million would reduce our valuation allowance. our future effective annual tax rate may be materially impacted by the amount of benefits and charges from tax amounts associated with our foreign earnings that are taxed at rates different from the federal statutory rate. a significant amount of our earnings is generated by our european and asia pacific subsidiaries. our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates. We have no immediate comment on this.

Revenues: Total net revenue was $3.79 billion during fiscal 2021, an increase of 16% compared to the prior fiscal year. Net revenue retention rate (“nr3”) was within the range of 100% and 110% as of january 31, 2021. During fiscal 2019, ingram micro accounted for 11% of autodesk’s total net Revenue. Rpo represents deferred revenue and contractually stated or committed orders under early renewal and multi-year billing plans. We expect that the amount of rpo will change from quarter to quarter for several reasons, including the specific timing, duration, and size of customer subscription and support agreements. See part ii, item 8, note 2, “revenue recognition” for more details on autodesk's performance obligations.

Liquidity: our primary source of cash is from the sale of our software and related services. on february 23, 2021, we announced the pending acquisition of storm uk holdco limited, the parent of innovyze, inc., for approximately $1.0 billion. we intend to fund this acquisition with readily available cash. our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances are concentrated in a few locations around the world, with substantial amounts held outside of the united states. We expect to meet our liquidity needs through or in combination of current cash balances, ongoing cash flows, and external borrowings. cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties. as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, we extended contract payment terms for up to 60 days for all customers and partners for new orders and renewals placed directly with autodesk.

Debt: as of january 31, 2021, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of regulation s-k. 60 we provide indemnifications of varying scopes and certain guarantees, including limited product warranties. We are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these guarantees on our future results of operations.

