Business Overview:  agilysys has been a leader in hospitality software for more than 40 years, delivering innovative cloud-native saas and on-premise guest-centric technology solutions. The company offers the most comprehensive software solutions in the industry, including point-of-sale (pos), property management (pms), inventory and procurement, payments, and related applications.

Results of Operations: fiscal 2021 compared with fiscal 2020 net revenue and operating loss. products revenue decreased $17.5 million, or 39.6%, due to delayed customer purchasing decisions as the timing of the hospitality recovery from the covid-19 pandemic remains unclear. support, maintenance and subscription services revenue increased $4.9 million. subscription revenue sales were led by our add on software modules, including modules enabling social distancing and contactless capabilities. amortization of intangibles decreased $0.6 million or 22.9% in fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. legal settlements consist of settlements of employment and other business-related matters. interest income consists of interest earned on short-term investments in certificates of deposit, commercial paper, money market funds and corporate-owned life insurance policies. other expense, net consists mainly of the impact of foreign currency due to movement of european and asian currencies against the us dollar. we also had $ 165.6 million of state net operating loss carryforwards that expire, if unused, in fiscal years 2022 through 2041. products revenue increased $5.2 million, or 13.4%, due to increased sales in third-party hardware sales including new customers and expansion with existing customers. support, maintenance and subscription services revenue was up 10.8%, driven by continued growth in subscription-based service revenue.  depreciation of fixed assets increased $0.1 million or 2.8% in fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019. legal settlements consist of settlements of employment and other business-related matters. interest income consists of interest earned on short-term investments in certificates of deposit, commercial paper, money market funds and corporate-owned life insurance policies. permanent book to tax differences. 30 although the timing and outcome of tax settlements are uncertain, it is reasonably possible that during the next 12 months an immaterial reduction in unrecognized tax benefits may occur as a result of the expiration of various statutes of limitations. at march 31, 2020, we had $199.1 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards that expire, if unused, in fiscal years 2031 to 2038.

Revenues: as required by the sec, we separately present revenue earned as products revenue, support, maintenance and subscription service revenue or professional services revenue in our consolidated statements of operations. We may, at times, also refer to revenue as defined below. The terminology, definitions, and applications of terms we use to describe our revenue may be different from those used by other companies.

Liquidity: All $99.2 million of our cash on hand was deposited in bank accounts, of which 96% are located in the united states. while the covid-19 pandemic has had a significant adverse impact on our results of operations during our entire fiscal 2021, we cannot presently estimate its ongoing financial impact. We have maintained certain proactive measures to secure our liquidity position to be able to meet our requirements for the foreseeable future.

Debt: we have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition. our contractual obligations consist primarily of operating leases for office space and preferred stock dividends. we believe our cash on hand, funds from operations, and access to capital markets will provide adequate funds to finance capital spending and working capital needs.

