Business Overview: The purchase price allocation process requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions with respect to intangible assets and deferred revenue obligations. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable, they are based in part on historical experience, market conditions and information obtained from management. unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results.

Revenues: our financial results for fiscal 2020 and 2019 are presented in accordance with accounting standards update no. 2014-09. revenue from contracts with customers was adopted under the modified retrospective method at the beginning of fiscal 2019. fiscal 2018 results have not been restated which limits its comparability with other fiscal years presented. We have the following reportable segments: digital media, digital experience, and publishing and advertising. We experienced strong demand across our digital media offerings consistent with the continued execution of our long-term plans with respect to this segment. during the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we began to discontinue our transaction-driven advertising cloud offerings, allowing us to focus our investment on strategic growth initiatives. our cash flow hedging program is used to mitigate a portion of the foreign currency impact to revenue. document cloud, which we believe enhances the way people manage critical documents at home, in the office and across devices. adobe acrobat dc is offered both through subscription and perpetual licenses. 44 annualized recurring revenue (“arr”) is currently the key performance metric our management uses to assess the health and trajectory of our overall digital media segment. our solutions help businesses manage, personalize and orchestrate campaigns and customer journeys across b2e use cases. our offerings include adobe campaign, marketo engage and journey orchestration. we utilize a direct sales force to market and license our digital experience solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners.

Gross Profit Margin: Cost of subscription revenue increased due to the following: third-party royalties, amortization related to purchased intangibles and acquired rights to use technology, excess and obsolete inventory, localization costs and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. cost of services and other revenue is primarily comprised of employee-related, other associated costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support.

Operating Income: Research and development expenses increased due to the following: we will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our subscription and service offerings, applications and tools. sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and events, public relations and other market development programs. investment gains (losses), net decreased during fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019.

Liquidity: Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue and, to a lesser extent, proceeds from participation in the employee stock purchase plan. our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may fluctuate during fiscal 2021. cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the effects of the pandemic and other risks detailed in part i, item 1a titled “risk factors” the notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. as of november 27, 2020, we expect our capital investment to be approximately $550 million to $650 million, primarily to fund our san jose and bangalore construction projects. We completed our acquisition of workfront, a privately held company that provides a work management platform for marketers, for about $1.5 billion in cash consideration.

Debt: our principal commitments as of november 27, 2020 consist of our notes and obligations under operating leases, royalty agreements and various service agreements. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. we have agreements whereby we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is or was serving at our request in such capacity.

