Business Overview: mitek is a leading innovator of mobile image capture and digital identity verification solutions. In may of 2021, mitek acquired id r&amp;d, an award-winning provider of ai-based voice and face biometrics and liveness detection. We use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately assign fair value to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.

Results of Operations: certain amounts included herein differ from amounts reported in our preliminary unaudited consolidated balance sheet and statement of operations. we use the following methods, inputs, and assumptions in determining amounts of revenue to recognize. for multi-element arrangements, we account for individual goods or services as a separate performance obligation if they are distinct, the good or service is separately identifiable from other items in the arrangement and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer. id r&amp;d is an award-winning provider of artificial intelligence-based voice and face biometrics and liveness detection. under the terms of the merger agreement, the company agreed to pay an aggregate purchase price of up to $49.0 million. We have 18 patent applications as of september 30, 2021. Covid-19 was declared a pandemic by the world health organization on march 11, 2020. We believe our patented mobile image capture and identity verification technology, our growing portfolio of products and geographic coverage for the financial services industry gives us a distinct competitive advantage. to remain competitive, we must continue to offer products that are attractive to the consumer as well as being secure, accurate, and convenient.

Revenues: Software and hardware revenue increased $5.9 million, or 11%, to $60.1 million in 2021. cost of revenue includes personnel costs related to billable services and software support, direct costs associated with our hardware products, hosting costs, and the costs of royalties for third-party products embedded in our products. research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation and other headcount-related costs.  acquisition-related costs and expenses increased $2.4 million, or 36%. restructuring costs were negative $0.1 million in 2020 due to a reversal of costs accrued for the restructuring plan implemented in june 2019. Other income, net includes interest income net of amortization and net realized gains or losses on our marketable securities portfolio, foreign currency transactional gains, and the change in fair value of our convertible senior notes hedge and embedded conversion derivative. Selling and marketing expenses increased $3.1 million, or 13%, to $27.6 million in 2020. Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, third-party contractor expenses, product management and other headcount-related costs associated with software engineering and mobile image capture science. General and administrative expenses are primarily due to an increase in intellectual property litigation costs of $2.3 million. restructuring costs were negative $0.1 million in 2020 and are due to a reversal of costs accrued for the restructuring plan implemented in june 2019. other income, net includes interest income net of amortization and net realized gains or losses on our marketable securities portfolio. our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2020 was lower than the u.s. federal statutory rate of 21%.

Liquidity: on september 30, 2021, we had $227.4 million in cash and cash equivalents and investments compared to $62.0 million on August 31, 2020. The increase was primarily due to net proceeds from the issuance of the 2026 notes of $140.5 million (net of sale of warrants and purchase of convertible senior notes hedge) these increases were partially offset by net cash paid in conjunction with the id r&amp;d acquisition. The notes hedge was entered into with bank of america, n.a., jefferies international limited and goldman sachs &amp; co. llc. It provided the company with the option to acquire, on a net settlement basis, approximately 7.4 million shares of common stock at a strike price of $20.85. The company received $23.9 million in cash proceeds from the warrant transactions. share repurchase program will expire on june 30, 2022. timing, price and volume of repurchases will be based on market conditions, relevant securities laws and other factors. the program may be discontinued or amended at any time. our principal executive offices, as well as our research and development facility, are located in approximately 29,000 square feet of office space in san diego, california. we believe our existing properties are in good condition and are sufficient and suitable for the conduct of its business. other liquidity matters on september 30, 2021, we had investments of $197.1 million, designated as available-for-sale debt securities. all securities for which maturity or sale is expected within one year are classified as “current” on the consolidated balance sheets.

Debt: the company had no off-balance sheet arrangements as of september 30, 2021. in february 2021, the company issued $155.3 million aggregate principal amount of 0.750% convertible notes due 2026 (the “2026 notes”) The company entered into privately-negotiated convertible senior note hedge and warrant transactions. The resulting gain (or loss) was reported in other income, net, in the consolidated statement of operations to the extent the valuation changed from the date of issuance.

