Business Overview: When we acquire businesses, we allocate the purchase price to the acquired tangible assets and assumed liabilities, including deferred revenue, liabilities associated with the fair value of contingent consideration and acquired identifiable intangible assets. these estimates can include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an acquired business is expected to generate in the future. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates. our products and services are designed to give our customers a competitive edge in their development of ics, socs, and increasingly sophisticated electronic devices and systems. we offer software, hardware, services and reusable ic design blocks, which are commonly referred to as ip. during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we completed our acquisitions of awr and integrand. the addition of numeca’s technologies and talent supports our intelligent system design™ strategy.

Results of Operations: increased product and maintenance revenue, resulting from growth in software, ip and hardware, particularly in china and the united states. higher selling costs, including additional investment in technical sales support in response to our customers’ increasing technological requirements. decreased operating expenses for travel, meetings and events due to various measures implemented to contain covid-19.

Revenues: we expect that between 85% and 90% of our annual revenue will be characterized as recurring revenue. up-front revenue is primarily generated by our sales of emulation and prototyping hardware and individual ip licenses. revenue by geography revenue in the united states increased during fiscal 2020, as compared to fiscal 2019, primarily due to an increase in revenue for software and ip offerings. for an additional description of how changes in foreign exchange rates affect our consolidated financial statements, see the discussion under item 7a, “quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk – foreign currency risk.” For confidential support call the Samaritans on 08457 909090 or visit http://www.samaritans.org/.

Gross Profit Margin:Cost of product and maintenance depends primarily on our hardware product sales in any given period. It is also affected by employee salary and benefits and other employee-related costs, reserves for inventory, and the timing and extent to which we acquire intangible assets, license third-party technology or ip.

Operating Income: operating expenses include marketing and sales, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. factors that tend to cause our operating expenses to fluctuate include changes in the number of employees due to hiring and acquisitions, stock-based compensation, restructuring activities, foreign exchange rate movements and the impact of our variable compensation programs that are driven by operating results.

Interest Expense: Interest expense increased during fiscal 2020, as compared to fiscal 2019, due to borrowings of $350 million under our revolving credit facility. Borrowings were taken as a precautionary measure to provide additional liquidity in light of global economic uncertainty. For an additional description of our debt arrangements, see note 3 in the notes to consolidated financial statements.

Liquidity: Cadence’s board of directors increased the previously announced authorization to repurchase shares of cadence common stock by an additional $750 million. The actual timing and amount of repurchases are subject to business and market conditions, corporate and regulatory requirements, stock price, acquisition opportunities and other factors. approximately 61% of our cash and cash equivalents were held by our foreign subsidiaries as of january 2, 2021. We issued $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% senior notes due october 15, 2024. interest is payable in cash semi-annually. as of january 2, 2021, we were in compliance with all covenants associated with the 2024 notes. for additional information relating to our debt arrangements, see note 3 in the notes to consolidated financial statements.

Debt: as of january 2, 2021, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k. We estimate $16.3 million will be paid or settled within 1 to 3 years. The remaining portion of other long-term contractual obligations is primarily liabilities associated with defined benefit retirement plans and acquisitions.

