Business Overview: accounting for our acquisitions requires us to recognize, separately from goodwill, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values. accounting for business combinations requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies. Our revenue is primarily derived from on-premises software and saas subscriptions, professional services and scoring services. $21.7 million of the year-over-year decrease in our software segment revenue was attributable to the divestiture of our c&amp;r business. Software segment revenues increased $27.1 million in fiscal 2020 from 2019. business-to-consumer offerings provide consumers with access to their fico scores and credit reports. these are provided as either a one-time or ongoing subscription service renewed monthly or annually. revenue from annual subscription services is recognized ratably over the subscription period. we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits and claims relating to products and services, technology, labor, stockholder and other matters.

Results of Operations: Although we sell solutions and services into a large number of end user product and industry markets, our reportable business segments reflect the primary method in which management organizes and evaluates internal financial information to make operating decisions and assess performance. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we reevaluated our operating segments to better align with how our chief operating decision maker (“codm”) evaluates performance and allocates resources.

Revenues: Accounting standards codification 606 requires us to recognize a significant portion of revenue from our on-premises software subscriptions at the point in time when the software is first made available to the customer. This point-in-time recognition creates significant variability in the revenue recognized period to period. We use arr to measure the underlying performance of our subscription-based contracts and mitigate the impact of this variability.

Gross Profit Margin: Cost of revenues consists of employee salaries, incentives, and benefits for personnel directly involved in delivering software products. It also includes allocated overhead, facilities and data center costs; software royalty fees; credit bureau data and processing services; third-party hosting fees related to our saas services. The fiscal 2021 from 2020 decrease of $28.7 million was primarily attributable to an $18.8 million decrease in personnel and labor costs.

Operating Income: Operating income of $209.5 million was primarily attributable to a $100.1 million gain on product line asset sales and business divestiture during fiscal 2021. At the segment level, the $89.3 million increase in segment operating income was the result of a £7.8 million decrease in corporate expenses.

Interest Expense: interest expense includes primarily interest on the senior notes issued in december 2019, may 2018, and july 2010. on our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, interest expense is netted with interest income. Interest income is derived primarily from the investment of funds in excess of our immediate operating requirements.

Liquidity: our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities. net cash provided by operating. activities totaled $364.9 million in fiscal 2020 compared to $260.4 millionin fiscal 2019. The $104.5 million change was attributable to a $44.3 million increase in net income. A $100.1 million gain on product line asset sales and a business divestiture in. fiscal 2021.

Debt: As of september 30, 2021, we had $518.0 million in borrowings outstanding at a weighted-average interest rate of 1.212%. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of the payments or the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over time. We do not believe we are at material risk of not meeting these covenants due to covid-19. 44.

