Business Overview: 27 teradata corporation is a leading multi-cloud data warehouse platform provider. We are in the process of realigning and streamlining our operations as we pursue our business transformation and strategy to become a cloud-first growth company. As part of these activities, the company approved a plan to realign and reduce its workforce and rationalize its real estate footprint.

Results of Operations: in july 2019, the financial accounting Standards board ("fasb") issued accounting standards update 2019-07. for discussion of fiscal year 2019 versus 2018 see "item 7. management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in our annual report filed with the sec for the fiscalyear ended december 31, 2019.

Revenues: 2020 compared to 2019 -total revenue decreased $63 million, or 3%, in 2020. recurring revenue grew 7%, driven by our movement to subscription-based transactions from perpetual software licenses and hardware transactions, consistent with our strategy. under subscription models, we recognize revenue over time as opposed to the upfront recognition under the perpetual model. public cloud arr is expected to increase by at least 100% year-over-year. it also includes the same information that is used by teradata management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess financial performance. our segment results are reconciled to total company results reported under gaap in note 14 of notes to consolidated financial statements.

Gross Profit Margin: The company often uses specific terms to describe variances in gross profit. The terms and definitions most often used are as follows: •  “Gross profit” is a term used to refer to the difference between the company’s profit before taxes and its profit after taxes.

Operating Income: 2020 compared to 2019 - the sg&amp;a expense increase was primarily driven by an increase in stock-based compensation expense, the vsp, amortization of capitalized sales compensation, as well as additional investments in our go-to-market and customer success teams.

Liquidity: teradata ended 2020 with $529 million in cash and cash equivalents, a $35 million increase from the december 31, 2019 balance. The company used approximately $58 million of cash in 2020 for reorganizing and restructuring its operations and go-to-market functions to align to its strategy. We believe that operating cash flows and available liquidity are sufficient to support operational needs for at least the next 12 months. The company has changed its indefinite reinvestment assertion related to foreign earnings that have been taxed in the united states and now considers a majority of these earnings no longer indefinitely reinvested. The company believes current cash, cash generated from operations and the $400 million available under the credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy future working capital, research and development activities, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and other financing requirements for at least the next twelve months.

Debt:  lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants. changes in judgments and estimates, such as the likelihood of renewal options, impairments, or the incremental borrowing rate could impact the amounts of assets or liabilities recorded. our long-term debt and minimum debt obligations as of december 31, 2020 are discussed in note 12 of notes to consolidated financial statements.

