Business Overview: Our business we provide check-out and payment systems that securely automate and simplify the way online payment and shipping information is received by merchants from their customers. in september 2018 b4mc changed its name to rocketfuel blockchain, inc. the foregoing description of the contribution agreement does not purport to be complete. some representations and warranties may not be accurate or complete as of any specified date because they are subject to a contractual standard of materiality that is different from certain standards generally applicable to shareholders.  rocketfuel payment solution is designed to be implemented on an ecommerce site’s check-out page. technology will also be used for different scenarios, including paying for services, paying invoices, and other payment strategies. a significant benefit of this technology is that the entire shopping cart checkout process will be accomplished via a distributed ledger or “blockchain” we believe that such advertisements will provide significant new sales channels to retailers that are simply not possible with legacy check-out solutions. using the rocketfuel payment solution, credit card data will no longer be shared or transmitted and exposed online. rather, payments will be made via 100% secure cryptocurrency conveyance or direct bank transfer on the blockchain.

Results of Operations: During the three month period ended march 31, 2021, we commenced commercial operations and executed a contract with one customer having a one-year term from the date of execution. we anticipate that future revenues will be generated from (i) fees charged in connection with the implementation of our blockchain technology; and (ii) ongoing daily transactional fees derived as a negotiated percentage of the revenues earned by our merchant customers.

Liquidity: our current cash requirements are approximately $200,000 per month. during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2021, net cash of $636,257 was used in operating activities. there can be no assurances that we will be successful in raising the additional capital necessary to continue operations and execute on our business plan. any potential future sale of equity or debt securities may result in dilution to our stockholders.

