Business Overview: nortonlifelock inc. has the largest consumer cyber safety platform in the world, empowering nearly 80 million users in more than 150 countries. during fiscal year 2021, we completed the acquisition of avira, which provides a consumer-focused portfolio of cybersecurity and privacy solutions. we believe this acquisition will help accelerate our international growth.

Results of Operations: Net revenues increased $61 million due to the increase in our direct customer count year-over-year and stable annual retention rate and average revenue per user (arpu) in fiscal 2021. The increase was partially offset by a $46 million decrease as a result of the divestiture of our id analytics solutions in january 2020. In july 2020, we completed the sale of our culver city property for cash consideration of $118 million, net of selling costs. We borrowed $750 million under the delayed draw term loan, maturing in 2024, and used the entire amount of the proceeds to repay in full the principal and accrued interest under our 4.2% senior notes due september 2020. The first amendment to our credit agreement, executed in may 2021, extends the maturity date from november 2024 to may 2026 for this tranche.

Gross Profit Margin: fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 our cost of revenues decreased $31 million primarily due to decreases in royalty charges and technical support costs, partially offset by an increase in commissions, reflecting higher investments in affiliate marketing programs. in addition, during fiscal 2019, we recorded higher inventory write-offs of $10 milliondue to our discontinuation of our consumer hardware product line.

Operating Income: Sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses were driven by our cost reduction initiatives. restructuring, transition and other costs decreased $105 million primarily due to a $50 million decrease of contract cancellation charges. see note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for further information on our restructuring plans.

Liquidity: As of april 2, 2021, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $1.0 billion, of which $0.4 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries. capital allocation strategy is to balance driving stockholder returns, managing financial risk, and preserving our flexibility to pursue strategic options, including acquisitions. our principal cash requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs and support on-going business activities. contract liabilities decreased $121 million, primarily due to seasonally higher recognized revenue from our enterprise security solutions than billings during the period prior to the broadcom sale. income taxes payable increased $383 million. during fiscal 2020, we made aggregate tax payments of $2 billion related to these transactions. cash flows used in investing activities in fiscal 2021 primarily consisted of payment for the avira acquisition, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of our culver city and certain mountain view properties.

Debt: The following is a schedule of our significant contractual obligations as of april 2, 2021, including those associated with our discontinued operations. timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different, depending on the time of receipt of goods or services, or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.

