Business Overview: we are a leader in providing cloud email security, productivity and compliance solutions. We provide easy-to-use solutions for email encryption, data loss prevention (“dlp”), advanced email threat protection, unified archiving, and cloud data backup. Our 2020 results included record revenues attributable to our ongoing efforts to build a solid and predictable business based on our recurring revenue subscription business model.

Results of Operations: our services are sold on a subscription basis with contract terms historically ranging from one to five years billed annually. as of december 31, 2020, our annual recurring revenue (arr) was $237.7 million. deferred revenue is the value of contracted business that has been paid but has not been recognized as revenue. our net dollar customer retention percentage was 100%.

Revenues: the $45.1 million, or 26%, increase in revenue in 2020 over 2019 was related in part to recognition of twelve full months in sales for the year ended december 31, 2020, attributable to our appriver business acquired in february 2019. we additionally grew our revenue for these periods with continued success in our subscription-based business model with both steady additions to the subscriber base and with a high rate of existing customer renewals.

Gross Profit Margin:  cost of revenues is comprised of microsoft fees, costs related to operating and maintaining the zixdata center, third party data center costs, a field deployment team, customer service and support, and depreciation expense of computer equipment and amortization of acquired technology. the $61.7 million or 406% increase in 2019 compared to 2018.

Liquidity: We expect cash provided by operations to improve with amortization of acquired deferred revenue, continued growth in existing and new customers and our expansion of business in the united kingdom and europe. We believe a significant portion of our spending is discretionary and flexible and that we have the ability to adjust overall cash spending and raise additional funds in order to react, as needed, to any shortfalls in projected cash.

Debt: none. as of december 31, 2020, we had severance agreements with certain employees which would require us to pay up to approximately $5.3 million if all such employees were terminated from employment with our company. our principal commitments consist primarily of obligations under operating and financing leases, which include among others, certain leases of our offices, colocations and servers.

