Business Overview: Adp is a leading global provider of cloud-based human capital management (“hcm”) technology solutions to employers around the world. The global covid-19 pandemic has had a significant impact on the global business environment and on our clients. During the fiscal year, we continued to advance our market-leading solutions and achieved some new milestones. we are committed to building upon our past successes by investing in our business through enhancements in research and development and by driving meaningful transformation in the way we operate. our financial condition remains solid at june 30, 2021 and we remain well positioned to support our associates and our clients.

Revenues: for the year ended june 30, respectively: revenues for fiscal 2021 increased due to strong retention, new business bookings, an increase in zero-margin benefits pass-throughs and one percentage point of favorability from foreign currency. total revenues include interest on funds held for clients of $422.4 million , as compared to $545.2 million in fiscal 2020. adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted eps reflect the changes in components described above. The company paid a premium of $240 million to enter into a reinsurance arrangement with chubb to cover substantially all losses incurred by adp indemnity for the fiscal 2021 policy year up to $1 million per occurrence. The company believes the likelihood of ultimate losses exceeding this limit is remote.

Operating Income: in addition to our u.s. gaap results, we use adjusted results and other non-gaap metrics to evaluate our operating performance in the absence of certain items and for planning and forecasting of future periods. please refer to the accompanying financial tables for a discussion of why adp believes these measures are important. for the year ended june 30, respectively: earnings before income taxes increased in fiscal 2021.

Liquidity: as of june 30, 2021, cash and cash equivalent s were $2.6 billion, which were primarily invested in time deposits and money market funds. Given the uncertainty in the rapidly changing market and economic conditions related to the covid-19 pandemic, we will continue to evaluate the nature and extent of the impact to our financial condition and liquidity. The company considers several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, actual and potential acquisition activity.

Debt: the following table provides a summary of our contractual obligations at june 30, 2021. Based on current estimates, we expect to make cash payments up to $14.8 million in the next twelve months for obligations related to unrecognized tax benefits. We have $3.0 billion of senior unsecured notes with maturity dates in 2025, 2028, and 2030. We have successfully borrowed through the use of reverse repurchase agreements on an as-needed basis to meet short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. We believe that we currently meet all conditions set forth in the revolving credit agreements to borrow thereunder, and we are not aware of any conditions that would prevent us from borrowing part or all of the $9.7 billion available to us. We expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2022 to be between $200 million and $225 million.capital expenditures for fiscal 2021 were $178.3 million, as compared to $168. 3 million for Fiscal 2020. We expect Capital Expenditure in Fiscal 2021 to exceed $180 million by the end of the fiscal year.

