Business Overview: progress software corporation provides the best products to develop, deploy and manage high-impact business applications. we operate as three distinct segments: openedge, data connectivity and integration, and application development and deployment. We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values.

Results of Operations: The acquisitions of ipswitch and chef contributed $67.5 million and $3.8 million in revenue, respectively. changes in prices from fiscal year 2019 to 2020 did not have a significant impact on our revenue. Data connectivity and integration segment revenue decreased due to the timing of term license renewals by certain of our oem partners.  decreased travel and in-person events as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, as well as cost reductions we implemented within our cognitive application product lines in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. increased personnel costs resulting from the acquisitions of ipswitch and chef. higher contractor and outside services costs, offset by decreases in other various general and administrative costs. amortization of acquired intangibles decreased year-over-year due to certain intangible assets being fullyAmortized. We adopted the new accounting standard related to revenue recognition ("asc 606") effective december 1, 2018, using the full retrospective method, which required us to restate prior comparable periods. changes in prices from fiscal year 2018 to 2019 did not have a significant impact on our revenue. revenue by region total revenue generated in north america increased $29.7 million. application development and deployment segment revenue decreased in fiscal year 2019, primarily due to lower license and professional services revenue, partially offset by an increase in maintenance revenue. cost of software licenses consists primarily of costs of royalties, electronic software distribution, duplication, and packaging. amortization of acquired intangibles includes value assigned to technology-related intangible assets obtained in business combinations. We reclassified certain corporate land and building assets previously reported as property and equipment to assets held for sale on our consolidated balance sheets. We recognized an impairment charge of $5.1 million, which represented the difference between the fair value less cost to sell and the carrying value of the assets. In fiscal year 2018, we incurred professional and other fees relating to praesidium’s actions.

Liquidity: Cash outflows were offset by cash inflows from operations of $144.8 million. cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were $24.7 million and $23.1 million at november 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. foreign cash includes unremitted foreign earnings, which are invested indefinitely outside of the u.s. as such, they are not available to fund our domestic operations. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we restructured our operations in connection with the acquisition of ipswitch. this restructuring resulted in a reduction in redundant positions, primarily within administrative functions of chef. We incurred expenses of $1.5 million and $3.1 million, respectively, as part of this action related to employee costs and facility closures as we consolidated offices in various locations. the new term loan was used to partially fund our acquisition of ipswitch in april 2019. as of november 30, 2020, there was $98.5 million outstanding under the revolving line and $2.1 million of letters of credit. in july 2019, we entered into an interest rate swap contract with an initial notional amount of $150.0 million to manage the variability of cash flows associated with approximately one-half of our variable rate debt. in fiscal year 2019 there was a $22.7 million intangible asset impairment charge, which was the most significant non-cash reconciling item included in net income. cash used in investing activities was impacted by the acquisition of chef and ipswitch for a net cash amount of $225.3 million and $213.1 million, in fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. in addition, we purchased $6.5 million of property and equipment in Fiscal Year 2020, as compared to $4.0 million in FY 2019.

Debt: we have no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in item 303(a)(4) of regulation s-k. as of november 30, 2020 , we had unrecognized tax benefits of $6.2 million and an additional $0.4 million for interest and penalties classified as noncurrent liabilities. for the remaining balance we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years.

