Business Overview: citrix is an enterprise software company focused on helping organizations deliver a consistent and secure work experience. We do this by delivering a digital workspace solution that gives each employee the resources and space they need to do their best work. Our app delivery and security (formerly networking) solutions, which can be consumed via hardware or software, complement our workspace solutions. management uses arr to monitor the growth of our subscription business. on february 25, 2020, we issued $750.0 million of unsecured senior notes due march 1, 2030 (the “2030 notes”). we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire wrike, a leader in the saas collaborative work management space, for $2.25 billion in cash. we expect to fund the transaction with a combination of new debt and existing cash and investments. We believe that our solutions and our business model are resilient. We expect business continuity and risk mitigation to rise as areas of importance in boardroom discussions and on it priority lists. cash from operations, accounts receivable and revenues could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the effects of the covid-19 pandemic. Increase in operating income was primarily due to an increase in gross margin, partially offset by higher operating expenses. Increase in income tax expense as a result of a benefit related to swiss tax reform in 2019. Decrease in diluted net income per share was caused by a decrease in the number of weighted average shares outstanding.

Results of Operations: net revenues include subscription, product and license and support and services revenues. subscription revenue relates to fees for saas, which are generally recognized ratably over the contractual term. non-saas consists of on-premise licensing, hybrid subscription offerings, csp services and the related support. deferred revenue and unbilled revenue are influenced by several factors, including new business seasonality within the year. We do not believe that backlog, as of any particular date, is a reliable indicator of future performance. international revenues (sales outside the united states) accounted for 50.5% and 48.2% of our net revenues for the years ended december 31, 2020 and 2019. In order to minimize the impact on our operating results, we generally initiate our hedging of currency exchange risks up to 12 months in advance of anticipated foreign currency expenses. sales, marketing and services expenses consist of personnel related costs, including sales commissions, pre-sales support, the costs of marketing programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as brand development, advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. Other income (expense), net is primarily comprised of gains (losses) from remeasurement of foreign currency transactions, sublease income and realized losses related to changes in the fair value of our investments. our effective tax rate generally differs from the u.s. federal statutory rate primarily due to tax credits and lower tax rates on earnings generated by our foreign operations. we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.

Liquidity: During 2020, we generated operating cash flows of $935.8 million. the change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily a result of an outflow in other assets. our investing activities used $138.3 million of cash consisting primarily of net purchases of investments and cash paid for the purchase of property and equipment. we used borrowings from the term loan credit agreement to enter into an aggregate $1.00 billion accelerated share repurchase transaction on february 25, 2020. On January 16, 2021, we entered into a bridge facility and take-out facility commitment letter (the “commitment letter”) pursuant to which jpmorgan chase bank, n.a., has committed to provide a senior unsecured 364-day term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.45 billion. as of december 31, 2020, no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. we believe our existing cash and investments together with cash flows expected from operations will be sufficient to meet expected operating and capital expenditure requirements and service our debt obligations for the next 12 months. We used the proceeds from the term loan credit agreement and entered into accelerated share repurchase (“asr”) transactions with a group of dealers for an aggregate amount of $1.00 billion. We also withheld 893,479 shares from equity awards that vested to satisfy tax withholding obligations. These shares are reflected as treasury stock in our consolidated balance sheets included in this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2020.

Debt: contractual obligations summarizes our significant contractual obligations at december 31, 2020 and the future periods in which such obligations are expected to be settled in cash. purchase obligations represent non-cancelable commitments to purchase inventory ordered before year-end 2021 of approximat ely $8.8 million. (3) represents transition tax payable on deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income incurred as a result of the 2017 tax act.

