Business Overview: the following overview of our financial condition and results of operations is qualified in its entirety by the more complete discussion contained in this item 7. please also see the cautionary language at the beginning of part i of this form 10-k regarding forward-looking statements. synopsys, inc. provides products and services used across the entire silicon to software spectrum. our software integrity customers are software developers across many industries, including, but also well beyond, the semiconductor and systems industries. we have consistently grown our revenue since 2005, despite periods of global economic uncertainty. based on our leading technologies, customer relationships, business model, diligent expense management, and acquisition strategy, we believe that we will continue to execute our strategies successfully.

Results of Operations: below are based on our audited results of operations, which we have prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. 34 we do not allocate certain operating expenses managed at a consolidated level to our reportable segments. these unallocated expenses consist primarily of stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, litigation and acquisition-related costs.  revenues were $4,204.2 million, an increase of $518.9 million or 14%, primarily due to higher revenue resulting from growth across all products and geographies. Our fiscal year ends on the saturday nearest to october 31 and consists of 52 weeks, with the exception that approximately every five years, we have a 53-week year.

Revenues: our revenues are generated from two business segments: the semiconductor &amp; system design segment and the software integrity segment. eda software includes digital, custom and fpga ic design software, verification products and 36 obligations to provide unspecified updates and support services. revenue from professional service contracts is recognized over time, generally using costs incurred or hours expended to measure progress.  for fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, revenues increased primarily due to the continued organic growth of our business in most product categories and regions. increased investments by our customers in new, complex designs for their hardware and software products across a wide range of industries. upfront products revenue as a percentage of total revenue will likely fluctuate based on the timing of ip products and hardware sales.

Gross Profit Margin: The increase in cost of revenue for fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 was primarily due to increases of $54.8 million in personnel-related costs as a result of headcount increases from hiring and acquisitions. costs to deliver our maintenance and consulting services, such as hotline and on-site support, production services and documentation of maintenance updates. amortization of intangible assets, which is recorded to cost-of-revenue and operating expenses, includes  core/developed technology and certain contract rights intangible.

Interest Expense: "Increase in other income (expense) for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020 was primarily due to increase in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets," the company said in a statement. The company did not give a cause for the increase, but said it is expected to be lower than previously forecast.

Liquidity: our principal sources of liquidity are funds generated from our business operations and funds that may be drawn down under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. as of october 31, 2021, we held $1,580.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. our future cash requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth and the expansion of our sales and marketing activities.

Debt: our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations. as of october 31, 2021, we had lease payment obligations, net of immaterial sublease income, of $588.3 million, with $80.4 million payable within 12 months. purchase obligations represent an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business for which we have not received the goods or services.

