Business Overview: falconstor is a data protection leader that enables enterprises to modernize their data backup and archival operations across sites and public clouds. It delivers increased data security and providing the fastest recovery from a ransomware attack while driving down costs by up to 95 percent. The company has over an exabyte of data under management and is trusted by more than 600 enterprise customers and an ecosystem of managed service providers and resellers worldwide.  falconstor continues to focus on enterprise customers, managed service providers, and oem partners. revenue allocated to perpetual and term software licenses are recognized at a point in time upon electronic delivery of the download link and the license keys. product maintenance and support services are satisfied over time as they are stand-ready obligations throughout the support period.

Revenues: product revenue is comprised of both licenses for our software solutions and sales of the platforms on which the software is installed. products are sold through our oems, and through (i) value-added resellers, (ii) distributors and/or directly to end-users. these revenues are recognized when all the applicable criteria under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states are met. product revenue represented 48% and 41% of our total revenue for the years ended december 31, 2020 and 2019.

Gross Profit Margin:  cost of support and service consists of personnel and other costs associated with providing software implementations, technical support under maintenance contracts and training. product gross margin increased to 96% for the year ended december 31, 2020, compared with 89%. total gross profit decreased $0.7 million, or 5%, from $13.6 million to $12.9 million.

Operating Income: Research and development costs decreased $0.7 million, or 23%, to $2.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2020, from $3.2 million in 2019. The decrease was primarily related to a decrease in personnel related costs resulting from our realignment and reduction in workforce and continued efforts to allocate the appropriate level of resources based upon the product development roadmap schedule. Selling and marketing expenses increased by 6%, due to increased investments in the americas and emea. restructuring expense decreased $0.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2020 to $1.0 million. restructuring charge in the prior year period. for further information, refer to note (14) restructuring costs , to our consolidated financial statements. For confidential support, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline on 1-800-273-8255.

Interest Expense: interest and other expense is comprised of interest expense on our term loan, foreign currency gains and losses and the change in fair value our embedded derivatives. For the year ended december 31, 2020 to $0.7 million, compared to £1.6 million for the same period in 2019.

Liquidity: principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents generated from operating, investing and financing activities. on december 27, 2019, the company entered into an amendment to the amended and restated term loan agreement. the amendment also provides for certain financial covenants. in the case of default, an affiliate of hale capital may (and upon the written request of lenders holding in excess of 50% of the term loans, which must include hcp-fva) is required to accelerate payment of all obligations. The company entered into a loan with peapack-gladstone bank in an aggregate principal amount of $754,000 on april 28, 2020. The company eliminated 23 positions worldwide, implemented tighter expense controls, ceased non-core activities and downsized several facilities. Based on its projected cash flows from operations, commitments from hcp, ongoing financing activities, cost cutting measures in place and existing cash on hand, the company is projecting to have sufficient liquidity and to be cash flow positive through march 10, 2022. (b) represents our liability for uncertain tax positions. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments due to uncertainties in the timeliness of tax audit outcomes. We may not be able to say when payments will be made as a result of these uncertainties.

Debt: as of december 31, 2020 and 2019, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. We have no plans to change the way we balance our books in the future. For more information, go to: http://www.cnn.com/2013/01/30/business/how-much-can-you-earn-in-a-year-and-what-does-it-mean.

