Business Overview: we are a global leader in asset optimization software that optimizes asset design, operations and maintenance in complex, industrial environments. our products have embedded ai capabilities that create insights, provide guidance, and automate and democratize knowledge. we have established sustainable competitive advantages based on the following strengths: • innovative products that can enhance our customers' profitability and productivity; • large installed base of users of our software.

Results of Operations: total free cash flow increased $6.3 million during fiscal 2020 as compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to changes in working capital. cash provided by increases in deferred revenue of $13.0 million.

Revenues: We sell our software products to end users, primarily under fixed-term licenses, through a subscription offering. The aspenone licensing model includes software maintenance and support, known as our premier plus sms offering, for the entire term. We provide training and professional services to our customers. We expect license revenue to increase or decrease as a result of: (i) dollar value of bookings in the period; and (ii) timing of renewals. We recognize professional services revenue for our time-and-materials contracts based upon hours worked and contractually agreed-upon hourly rates. out-of-pocket expenses which are reimbursed by customers are recorded as revenue.

Gross Profit Margin: Cost of license revenue consists of (i) royalties, (ii) amortization of capitalized software and intangible assets, and (iii) distribution fees. cost of maintenance. consists primarily of personnel-related costs of providing premier plus sms bundled with our aspenone licensing and point product arrangements. expenses. costs associated with providing our customers professional services and training. gross profit margin increased to 91.5% in fiscal 2021 compared to 89.7%.

Operating Income: Sales and marketing expenses include expenses needed to promote our company and our products and to conduct market research to help us better understand our customers and their business needs. Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel expenses related to the creation of new software products, enhancements and engineering changes to existing products. Other costs, such as outside professional and consultant fees, amortization of intangible assets, and the provision for bad debt on accounts receivable.

Interest Expense: The year-over-year decrease of $4.6 million in interest expense during fiscal 2021 as compared to the prior fiscal year was primarily due to less interest associated with the revolving line of credit. The interest expenses related to an increase in borrowings under our amended and restated credit agreement.

Liquidity: Fiscal 2020 during fiscal 2020, $49.4 million of net cash was provided by financing activities. sources of cash in the period included proceeds of $449.2 million from the amended and restated credit agreement. we believe that annual spend is a useful business metric to investors as it provides insight into the growth component of our term licenses and to how management evaluates and forecasts the results of the business. For agreements denominated in other currencies, we use a fixed historical exchange rate to calculate annual spend in dollars rather than using current exchange rates. we believe that methodology more accurately allocates any discounts or premiums to the different elements of the agreement. free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities adjusted for the net impact of (a) purchases of property, equipment and leasehold improvements, and (b) payments for capitalized computer software costs.

Debt: as of june 30, 2021, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in item 303(a)(4)(ii) of sec regulation s-k. We entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with jpmorgan chase bank, n.a., as administrative agent, joint lead arranger and joint bookrunner. The indebtedness under the revolving credit facility matures on december 23, 2024.

