Business Overview: aci worldwide powers digital payments for more than 6,000 organizations around the world. Our products and solutions are used globally by banks, intermediaries, merchants, and billers. We believe our liquidity will allow us to manage the anticipated impact of covid-19 on our business operations for the foreseeable future. as of december 31, 2020, we had $165.4 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which $69.9 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. We may potentially be required to accrue and pay foreign and u.s. state income taxes to repatriate these funds. In computing our 60-month backlog estimate, the following items are specifically not taken into account: anticipated increases in transaction, account, or processing volumes. dollar amounts reflect foreign currency exchange rates as of each period end. this is a non-gaap financial measure being presented to provide comparability across accounting periods. we believe this measure provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our financial performance. estimates of future financial results require substantial judgment and are based on several assumptions, as described above.

Revenues: total revenue for the year ended december 31, 2020, increased $36.0 million, or 3%, as compared to the same period in 2019. speedpay contributed an incremental $123.3 million in total revenue. The company’s saas arrangements allow customers to use certain software solutions (without taking possession of the software) in a single-tenant cloud environment on a subscription basis. license revenue also includes license and capacity fees payable quarterly or monthly due to negotiated customer payment terms (monthly license fees) maintenance revenue includes standard, enhanced, and premium customer support and any post contract support fees received from customers for the provision of product support services. license revenue decreased $41.4 million, or 14%, during the year ended december 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019. we are seeing global players with existing schemes working to expand capacity in anticipation of volume growth. mature markets continue to accelerate innovation, especially in terms of overlay services and cross-border connectivity. our investments and partnerships, as demonstrated by our product enablement and initial optimization onto microsoft azure, enable us to leverage the hybrid cloud technology benefits of automation and rapid deployment and delivery.

Operating Income: total operating expenses for the year ended december 31, 2020, increased $15.0 million, or 1%, as compared to the same period in 2019. cost of revenue includes costs to provide saas and paas, third-party royalties, amortization of purchased and developed software for resale, the costs of maintaining our software products, as well as costs required to deliver, install, and support software at customer sites. adjusted for the impact of incremental speedpay expense, significant transaction-related expenses, and foreign currency, r&amp;d expense decreased $10.4 million, or 7%, during the year ended december 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019. Selling and marketing includes both the costs related to selling our products to current and prospective customers as well as costs to promote the company, its products and the research efforts required to measure customers’ future needs and satisfaction levels.

Liquidity:  cash flows provided by operating activities were $198.7 million higher for the year ended december 31, 2020, compared to the same period in 2019, due to higher net income and the timing of working capital. our current policy is to use our operating cash flow primarily for funding capital expenditures, lease payments, stock repurchases, and acquisitions. we paid $753.9 million, net of $0.1 million in cash acquired, to acquire speedpay. we also had $400.0 million outstanding of the 2026 notes as of december 31, 2020. see note 4, debt , to our notes to consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this form 10-k for additional information. For confidential support call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline on 1-800-273-8255 or visit http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/.

Debt: settlement accounts we enter into agreements with certain biller clients to process payment funds on their behalf. these funds are maintained in accounts for the benefit of our clients, which are separate from our corporate assets. as we do not take ownership of the funds, the settlement accounts are not included in our balance sheet. we are entitled to interest earned on the fund balances.

