Business Overview: iws is a pioneer and leader in biometric identification and authentication software. Using human characteristics that are unique to us all, the company creates software that provides a highly reliable indication of a person’s identity. Products are used to manage and issue secure credentials, including national ids, passports, driver licenses and access control credentials. During march 2020, a global pandemic was declared by the world health organization related to the rapidly growing outbreak of a novel strain of coronavirus. The situation is rapidly changing and additional impacts to our business may arise that we are not aware of currently. We cannot predict whether, when or the manner in which the conditions surrounding covid-19 will change including the timing of lifting any restrictions or office closure requirements.

Revenues: Software and royalty revenue increased 78% or approximately $383,000 during the year ended december 31, 2020 as compared to the corresponding period in 2019. The full extent of covid-19’s impact on our operations and financial performance depends on future developments that are uncertain and unpredictable. We have focused on strategically updating our products with the latest mobile and cloud technology prioritized by market opportunities. cost of maintenance revenue increased approximately $23,000 during the year ended december 31, 2020 as compared to the corresponding period in 2019. effective january 1, 2018, we adopted accounting standards codification (“ asc ”), topic 606, revenue from contracts with customers. We recognize revenue only when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring a promised good or service to a customer. we recognize pcs revenue from periodic maintenance agreements. revenue is generally recognized ratably over the respective maintenance periods provided no significant obligations remain. costs related to such contracts are expensed as incurred. arrangements with multiple performance obligations a performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer.

Gross Profit Margin: software and royalty gross profit increased 81% or approximately $365,000 for the year ended december 31, 2020 as compared to the corresponding period in 2019. costs of products can vary as a percentage of product revenue from period to period depending upon level of software customization and third-party software license content included in product sales during a given period. decrease in maintenance revenue results from the timing of Maintenance revenue recognition related to a certain customer combined with the expiration of certain maintenance contracts.

Operating Income: During the year ended december 31, 2020, net cash used in operating activities consisted of net loss of $7,253,000 and an increase in working capital and other assets and liabilities. those amounts in addition to approximately $1,194k of non-cash income, including $2,252k in income from the change in fair value of derivative liabilities and $862K in stock-based compensation.

Interest Expense: interest expense for the year ended december 31, 2020 was comprised of approximately $94,000 on our related party notes payable and about $10,00 on notes under the ppp loan program. In 2019, we recognized interest income of $90,.000 and interest expense of  $0.

Liquidity: cash generated from financing activities was approximately $15,475,000 for the year ended december 31, 2020. our principal uses of cash in the future will be for product development, including customization of identity management products for enterprise and consumer applications. we expect that, as our revenue grows, our sales and marketing and research and development expense will continue to grow, albeit at a slower rate. management is not currently expecting the related proceeds to be sufficient to sustain operations for an extended period of time. such deferred stock issuance costs will be recognized as a charge against paid in capital in proportion to securities sold under this lincoln purchase agreement. during the year ended december 31, 2020, the company recognized approximately $36,000, respectively. The company consummated private placements of 12,060 shares of its series d convertible preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. however, we believe our available cash balances will be insufficient to satisfy our cash requirement for the next twelve months from the date of this filing. to address our working capital requirements, management intends to seek additional equity and/or debt financing. other than the lincoln purchase agreement, there are currently no formal committed financing arrangements to support our projected cash shortfall.

Debt: We did not have relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance, special purpose or variable interest entities. as a result, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. our corporate headquarters is located in san diego, california, where we now occupy approximately 500 square feet of office space at a cost of approximately $2,000 per month.

